## 1.1 What the DCM provides

The 2D Dimensional Constraint Manager (DCM) is a software component which manipulates geometric designs to satisfy given dimensions. 
DCM supports the concept of parametric sketching helping ensure that each dimension in a sketch can be varied independently but can also be used in direct modelling approaches.

DCM is concerned with unbounded lines, circles, ellipses, points and parametric evaluated geometry in two dimensions (or a two-dimensional subspace of three dimensions). It permits all forms of distance and angle dimensions between the geometries that it manages. 
This includes logical constraints such as parallel, perpendicular, tangent, coincident and symmetric as well as more complex relationships.

The main DCM interface consists of just a few functions and is very simple to use. 
An application has to declare geometry and dimensions to the DCM and the DCM can be asked at any time to recalculate the geometry so that it satisfies any relevant dimensions. 
The value of each dimension may either be given as a numerical quantity, or it may be found by specifying relationships between the values of several dimensions.

When the DCM is asked to perform an evaluation:

- It will firstly analyse the relative positions of geometry and determine a solution procedure.
- It will secondly recalculate the geometry to satisfy the dimensions.

This two stage algorithm helps to identify and resolve problem areas in the dimensioning scheme. 
It ensures that geometry which is not dependent on any problem area is recalculated, whilst preventing changes which might affect the relative arrangement of the geometries. 
It also allows the design to be recalculated rapidly when only dimension values have changed, since the first stage of the algorithm does not then need to be repeated.

The order in which geometry or dimensions are defined is irrelevant to the algorithms. 
This means that dimensions can be added, removed or changed at any time, providing great flexibility to the designer. 
It is always possible to recover a previous situation by restoring the relevant geometry and dimensions.

One of the major features of the DCM is that it is designed to handle under and over-constrained data. 
Under-constrained data is defined as data having insufficient dimensions and logical constraints to define the geometry uniquely. 
Over-constrained data is defined as data having too many or conflicting, dimensions and logical constraints. 
In an under-constrained model, DCM offers control over solution choices and methods to limit changes so that the model so far retains structure or shape. 
With support for over-constrained systems, DCM enables fully defined, unambiguous, parametric models with a minimal amount of difficulty.

Under-constrained and over-constrained data is handled by making available information on the status of all geometry and dimensions after every evaluation. 
This is particularly useful for resolving problem areas that are incorrectly dimensioned.

Under-constrained geometry is calculated to satisfy any dimensions that are applied to it, even though the geometry is not uniquely defined. 
In these cases, the application has the possibility of influencing the actual solution that the DCM will return.

