## 1.3 The Profile Geometry Manager component

The Profile Geometry Manager component (D-Cubed PGM) is a separate product that is designed to work in parallel with the 2D DCM and to manage aspects of sketcher-based software that the DCM does not address. 
The most significant difference is that the PGM handles bounded geometries such as edges, loops and profiles.

The PGM enables an application to rapidly add support for connected profiles of geometry with edges of any geometry type – lines, arcs, ellipses, splines, etc. 
In order to manage profiles in a variational sketcher an application must be able to determine when to add or remove geometry from the profile so that the designer’s intent is preserved. 
For example, if a profile becomes self-intersecting it may need to be trimmed. 
The PGM provides functionality to perform these profile modifications.

The current version of the PGM supports:

The generation of offset profiles:

- Ability to generate an offset loop from an open or closed base loop which contains any geometry types (including splines).

- Automatic trimming of offset profiles. 
The PGM will ensure that the offset generated has no intersections by identifying those sections of the profile which are to be removed.
- Automatic capping of offset profiles. 
The PGM will ensure that the offset profile remains connected by adding additional geometry to ‘cap’ any gaps. 
A variety of cap types is supported.
- Event notification to when trimming occurs or topology changes.

- Variational control of offset models via constraints and dimensions to geometry in offset and base loops.

Constraints to edges, or connected series of edges, loop constraints:

- Ability to apply 2D DCM constraints such as coincident and tangent, to a loop of edges.

- Constraints can be applied between a 2D DCM geometry and a PGM loop or edge, or between two loops or edges.
- Constraints to a single bounded edge can be created, e.g. 
a point coincident to a linear edge where the point must lie between the ends of the edge.

Area and perimeter constraints:

- Ability to calculate and to constrain the area enclosed by a closed loop of edges.
- Ability to calculate and to constrain the overall curve length of a connected series of edges.

Operations for find loops from disordered geometry:

- Ability to generate the closed loop around a given input position by intersecting and trimming input edges.
- Ability to generate all regions of enclosed space from a set of unconnected input edges.

Full details of the PGM can be obtained from the D-Cubed components sales team

(d-cubed.sales.plm@siemens.com). Further information is also available at [http://www.plm.automation.siemens.com/en\_us/products/open/d-cubed/products/pgm/index.shtml](http://www.plm.automation.siemens.com/en_us/products/open/d-cubed/products/pgm/index.shtml).

