## 1.5 Documentation

The following documents are distributed with a release of the DCM:

- The 2D DCM Manual (this manual). This is the main documentation for the system. 
It consists of a number of separate chapters covering different aspects of the DCM.
- 2D DCM Release Notes. 
This describes the way that the software is distributed and how it can be incorporated into an application executable. 
This document incorporates operating system specific guidance such as memory requirements.
- 2D DCM New Features. 
This document is for use by existing users and describes the changes from the previous release of the software.

The manual contains the following chapters:

- [1\. Introduction to the DCM](1._Introduction_to_the_DCM.md)
- [2\. Fundamental DCM Concepts](2._Fundamental_DCM_Concepts.md)
New users should read this chapter to gain an understanding of the DCM.
- [3\. Geometries](3._Geometries.md)
- [4\. Dimensions and Constraints](4._Dimensions_and_Constraints.md)
- [5\. Chirality](5._Chirality.md)
- [6\. Fixed, Frozen and Free Geometry](6._Fixed,_Frozen_and_Free_Geometry.md)
- [7\. Overview of parametric geometry](7._Overview_of_parametric_geometry.md)
- [8\. Spline curves](8._Spline_curves.md)
- [9\. Evaluated parametric curves](9._Evaluated_parametric_curves.md)
- [10\. Conics](10._Conics.md)
- [11\. Offset and copy curves](11._Offset_and_copy_curves.md)
- [12\. Variables, Equations, Inequalities and Limits](12._Variables,_Equations,_Inequalities_and_Limits.md)
- [13\. Automatic Constraining and Dimensioning](13._Automatic_Constraining_and_Dimensioning.md)
- [14\. Status Codes](14._Status_Codes.md)
- [15\. Integrating the DCM into an Application](15._Integrating_the_DCM_into_an_Application.md)
It is important to read this chapter before starting to integrate the software.
- [16\. The DCM Interface](16._The_DCM_Interface.md)
- [17\. The Frustum Interface](17._The_Frustum_Interface.md)
- [18\. The 2D DCM Headers](18._The_2D_DCM_Headers.md)

Additional information on how to use the DCM may be found by examining the code for the Analyse user interface and in the example programs delivered with the release. 
See section [15.17 The Example Programs](15.17._The_Example_Programs.md)

