## 10.3 Definition of a conic

A conic is defined by the following parameters:

- The type of the conic, which may be one of three types, all of which are bounded:

- DCM\_CONIC\_TYPE\_BEZIER – The conic will have the freedoms of its three control points and ρ, which will be bounded in the range 0 < ρ < 1. A value outside of the allowed range will be set to the nearest valid value.
- DCM\_CONIC\_TYPE\_FIXED\_RHO\_BEZIER – The DCM will not change the value of ρ when solving the model (e.g. 
in evaluate).
- DCM\_CONIC\_TYPE\_FIXED\_SHAPE\_BEZIER – The rho value will be limited according to the DCM\_conic\_shape parameter. 
A value outside of the allowed range will be set to the nearest valid value.

- The shape of the conic, if appropriate:

- DCM\_CONIC\_SHAPE\_PARABOLA will be equivalent to a fixed ρ value of 0.5.
- DCM\_CONIC\_SHAPE\_ELLIPSE will allow ρ to solve in the range 0 < ρ < 0.5.
- DCM\_CONIC\_SHAPE\_HYPERBOLA will allow ρ to solve in the range 0.5 < ρ < 1

- The rho value ρ of the conic, limited to 0 < ρ < 1.
- The rigidity of the conic, which may be one of

- DCM\_CONIC\_RIGIDITY\_RIGID (ρ is not an internal freedom)
- DCM\_CONIC\_RIGIDITY\_SCALABLE (ρ is not an internal freedom). Bi- and uni-scalable rigidities are not supported for conics.
- DCM\_CONIC\_RIGIDITY\_FLEXIBLE

- A number of control points which are positions in space (vectors) or existing points (g\_nodes) in the DCM. 
Currently, exactly three control points must be provided, with the first and last representing the end-points of the bounded curve.

### 10.3.1 Degenerate conic inputs

It is possible to supply DCM with a conic curve definition that is degenerate, that is, where the curve produced would have an infinite curvature, for example an ellipse with a zero radius. 
Typically this will occur if the control points are all co-linear.

If the shape of the conic cannot be computed, or if the effective distances between control points, or the conic focus is at infinity (i.e. 
greater than the defined DCM size from the model) then the DCM will return a status of DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_NOT\_SOLVED.

If the conic failure is due to a degenerate curve, then DCM will set the conic bad\_data property to indicate the problem values. 
For example if the focus would be at infinity it will set the bit DCM\_CONIC\_NEAR\_FOCUS.

This may occur if constraints are imposed that imply a degenerate conic, or it may result if the application specifies incompatible data at the start of a solve and constraints do not impose a valid position.

Note that in the current version of DCM, by default, a degenerate status on a conic curve does not result in an evaluate solve failure - all the constraints and geometry may have solving statuses even if the internal conic status is DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_NOT\_SOLVED because it is degenerate. 
Applications may therefore need to check the conic status and treat the whole solve as failing if this is bad.

Alternatively applications can set the DCM optional behaviour to mark degenerate conics as failing during a solve, as document in [16.2.4.14 Control solving status for degenerate conics](16.2._Configure_global_DCM_behaviour.md)

