## 10.4 Constraints to conics

2D DCM supports the same constraints and dimensions onto conics as for other parametric geometries, as detailed in [7.2 Dimensions and constraints to parametric curves](7.2._Dimensions_and_constraints_to_parametric_curves.md)

Since conics are defined to have a direction, constraints that control this are supported: Parallel, perpendicular, and angle. 
The conic direction is defined as parallel to the axis of the underlying unbounded conic (see above).

Symmetry and coincident constraints between conics are supported, though limited to compatible types according to the following table.

Conic types

Notes

FIXED\_RHO with FIXED\_RHO

Allowed: rho values must be equal

FIXED\_RHO with BEZIER

Allowed.

FIXED\_RHO with FIXED\_SHAPE

Allowed: Fixed rho value must be in shape range

FIXED\_SHAPE with FIXED\_SHAPE

Allowed: shapes must be identical

FIXED\_SHAPE with BEZIER

Not allowed

BEZIER with BEZIER

Allowed

Table 6 Compatible types with symmetry and coincident constraints

Pattern and equal relative transform constraints are allowed only between conics of the same type and shape or rho value (if applicable).

Note that the following restrictions apply to constraints on conics::

- Major / minor radius – Theoretically an elliptical conic curve can be said to have major and minor radii. 
The DCM conic does not support the use of these constraints even where the shape is fixed.
- Concentric constraints can only be added to conics of shape DCM\_CONIC\_SHAPE\_PARABOLA. 
Concentric constraints on conics of shape DCM\_CONIC\_SHAPE\_ELLIPSE are not currently supported.

### 10.4.1 Dimensioning the rho parameter

2D DCM provides the DCM\_CONIC\_RHO dimension type that can be applied directly to the rho parameter of a conic curve using the add\_r function to create an r\_node.

The conic rho dimension can be made rigid – the Frustum function DCM\_dimension\_rigid will be called for this r\_node type.

The conic rho dimension can be can be associated with a variable (v\_node) using the appropriate add\_v function.

In order to drive the conic rho dimension, the rigidity must be flexible and the type can either be DCM\_CONIC\_TYPE\_BEZIER or DCM\_CONIC\_FIXED\_SHAPE\_BEZIER. 
When using the DCM\_CONIC\_FIXED\_SHAPE\_BEZIER type, the shape can either be a hyperbola or an ellipse.

If a conic rho dimension is used on a fixed shape conic, then the conic rho dimension value must be within the shape’s conic rho range or the conic rho dimension will be given an inconsistent status.

All other conics are restricted to rigid rho dimensions. 
If a rigid conic rho dimension is used, the value must match the bezier\_rho value specified in DCM\_CONIC\_DATA, or the conic and its conic rho dimension will be over-defined.

DCM functions: [add\_v](16.4._DCM_functions_for_managing_equations.md)

Frustum functions: [DCM\_dimension\_rigid](17.2._Basic_dimension_functions.md)

### 10.4.2 Incremental solving and conics

Applications can change the definition of conic curve g\_nodes using the function DCM\_update\_conic. 
This function can be called either between evaluate calls, or from within a DCM Frustum callback (from DCM\_conic\_update). The rules about what an application can change vary for these two situations.

- Within an evaluation – The application may only update the values specified by the DCM in the data mask that is set by the calling Frustum function. 
These will include some or all of the following bits, depending on the timing of the call and the initial definition of the curve: DCM\_CONIC\_BEZIER\_RHO
- Outside an evaluation – The application may change any of the values of a conic, including to specify a change in the g\_nodes used to define control points, and to change the type (e.g. 
from free to fixed-rho). However, some changes will cause a reset of the DCM, thus forcing a future evaluation to doing a full solve, whilst others will be incremental.



The only change that allows an incremental solve (i.e. 
do not perform a reset) is DCM\_CONIC\_BEZIER\_RHO.

