## 10.6 Conic data enquiry

Whilst the conic curve is defined using the Bezier curve definition of 3 control points and a rho parameter, the DCM can calculate the important geometrical properties of the underlying infinite conic section. 
The following properties can be enquired via the conic data structure, once the conic is added to DCM:

- Axis direction – The axis direction is the direction from the directrix of the curve to the near focus. 
Thus it is perpendicular to the directrix and is also the direction from near vertex to the near focus.
- Eccentricity – The ratio of distances from any point on the conic section to the focus over the (minimum) distance to the directrix from that point on the curve.
- Near vertex – The vertex is the point on the infinite conic section closest to the directrix. 
This is the point at which the axis crosses the conic section. 
Note that this may not be on the bounded region of the DCM conic.
- Near focus – A general conic curve has two foci, but since the Bezier curve represents no more than one half of the full curve, only the near focus is significant.

DCM functions: [enquire\_conic](16.7._Conic_functions.md)

### 10.6.1 Calling the conic evaluator

Most applications that work with conic curves will include the capability to perform operations on the curves independently of the DCM. 
For example, they will be able to draw a conic curve. 
Most of these operations will depend upon being able to find positions and derivatives on the curve at a given parameter value.

Although it is expected that applications will be able to enquire the basic conic data from the DCM and then to use their own functions, the DCM also allows an application to enquire the conic shape via an evaluator function, which returns:

- Position and derivatives on the curve given a parameter value (i.e., a parametric evaluator function). Conic curves are always parameterised from 0 to 1.

DCM functions: [conic\_evaluator](16.7._Conic_functions.md)

