## 4.2 Rigid dimensions

Rigid dimensions are constraints that have an associated value but are solved as if they are logical constraints. 
That is, the DCM will solve to satisfy the value of the dimension but the dimension need not be independent of the rest of the model. 
This means that when a solution is found, there is no guarantee that the model can be solved for any other value of this dimension. 
Effectively, solving assumes rigid dimensions are constant rather than parameters of the design.

The DCM supports rigid distances, radii, angles, and 1D and 2D pattern values. 
The DCM can also support rigid arc length and curve length constraints by setting the options DCM\_OPKEY\_ALLOW\_RIGID\_ARC\_LENGTH and DCM\_OPKEY\_ALLOW\_RIGID\_CURVE\_LENGTH respectively. 
When these dimensions are defined to be rigid, they are classified as constraints and not dimensions. 
The DCM is therefore allowed to solve a model that is over-constrained by rigid distances, as long as the constraints are consistent. 
A simple example is two distance dimensions between two lines. 
If the dimensions are both made rigid then the DCM will find a solution provided the values are the same. 
If either of the dimensions is not rigid then it will be marked as over-defined whatever the values are.

The DCM will solve the model so that the rigid distance constraint values are satisfied. 
If it is not possible to satisfy the rigid distance constraints, then they will be given the status D\_OVER\_DEFINED.

If rigid arc lengths or rigid curve lengths are used, the options DCM\_OPKEY\_ALLOW\_RIGID\_ARC\_LENGTH or DCM\_OPKEY\_ALLOW\_RIGID\_CURVE\_LENGTH must be set. 
The possible values for these options are DCM\_OPVAL\_OFF, DCM\_OPVAL\_ON and DCM\_OPVAL\_ON\_OCC. 
If it is set to DCM\_OPVAL\_ON the DCM will call the frustum function DCM\_dimension\_rigid on arc length or curve length dimensions respectively, allowing the application to specify if the dimension is rigid or not. 
However, these dimensions will not be used in part of the algorithm for determining if the model is overconstrained-but-consistent, which may mean the model fails to solve in some situations. 
If the option is set to DCM\_OPVAL\_ON\_OCC these dimensions will also be used in the OCC algorithm, but this will have some performance cost.

DCM function: [add\_d](16.3._Defining_the_model_data.md)

Frustum function: [DCM\_dimension\_rigid](17.2._Basic_dimension_functions.md)

### 4.2.1 Taking advantage of rigid dimensions

Rigid distances can be used to convert over-dimensioned models that are known to be consistent into over-constrained models that will solve in the DCM. 
This could occur if an application that is using a single set to represent a sub-assembly with internal constraints is modified so that a set is used for each part in the sub-assembly.

The recommended method for converting over-defined models is to first to evaluate the model using dimensions. 
Then, all dimensions that are over-defined should be changed to rigid distance or rigid angle constraints as appropriate.

The disadvantage of the rigid dimension is that the DCM may not be able to find a solution if the value is changed and therefore these values are not tested to be variational parameters in a model. 
It is recommended that when creating a parametric model, standard distance and angle dimensions are used whenever possible so dimension values may be changed.

Rigid dimensions are used as an important guide to the way localised solve mode works. 
In that solving model, it is assumed that the purpose of the solve is to make a one-off, or series of incremental one-off changes to a model. 
For that purpose, any dimensions that will be constant over the course of that one-off operation should be made rigid, to inform DCM that they will not change. 
This allows DCM to localise the sovling changes around the parts of the model that are changing.

Note that dimensions that are associated with DCM variables may not be rigid (see section [12.1 Variables](12.1._Variables.md)

