## 4.4 Extended dimensioning types

The previous sections in this chapter have described the different types of dimension and constraint that are supported directly by the DCM. 
It is also possible for an application to provide other dimension types by combinations of these. 
This section describes some of the possibilities. 
Additional ways of controlling a model are in sections [15.10 Constraining the length of a curve](15.10._Constraining_the_length_of_a_curve.md)

### 4.4.1 Iterative solving of constraints

The DCM calculates the position of geometry fast enough to be used at the core of practical, iterative methods. 
Using this, it is possible for an application to implement complex constraints which are not supported by the DCM, e.g. 
an area or volume constraint. 
Note, however, that the D-Cubed PGM component provides functionality to dimension an area or perimeter directly whilst solving other 2D DCM constraints (see section [1.3 The Profile Geometry Manager component](1.3._The_Profile_Geometry_Manager_component.md)

For example, an area constraint could be considered as equivalent to solving the one-dimensional equation

area(dimension) - target\_area = 0

The dimension may be either linear or angular, with corresponding limits on the allowed values, and ability to wrap around through 2π radians, while the area function can be arbitrarily complicated, containing maxima, minima and discontinuities. 
The function itself is sampled by changing the dimension value, evaluating the dimension system, and then calculating the area. 
It is important to undo the evaluation before trying to sample another function point, since this keeps the function single valued. 
(Otherwise the model may change state in a way which depends not only on the start and end points, but on the route taken in between.)

The solution of one-dimensional equations is straightforward once a root has been bracketed (i.e. 
the function is known to change sign between two points), and there are many good methods for finding a zero from a pair of brackets. 
The problem becomes one of bracketing a zero, and of dealing with multiple even roots (maxima and minima which touch zero).

### 4.4.2 Solving geometries with non-linear equations

It is possible to simulate a wide range of advanced constraints by using non-linear equations to solve geometries. 
This technique allows the application to create advanced features such as a perimeter or area dimension. 
See section [12.3 Uses of geometry and p\_nodes in non-linear equations](12.3._Uses_of_geometry_and_p_nodes_in_non-linear_equations.md)

