## 15.16 Licensing functions

void DCM\_license\_frustum\_function (DCM\_logical lic, char\* message);

This Frustum function is only called from evaluation versions of the software. 
The function is registered using the function DCM2\_license and returns a text message (message) that gives warnings or errors from the licensing software, and can be used to obtain a valid authorisation code. 
It also returns a logical (lic) indicating if a valid license code has been found.

DCM\_logical DCM2\_license(DCM\_license\_frustum\_function app\_fun);

This function is called to check if the DCM is licensed to run. 
The argument app\_fun is the pointer to a Frustum function which will be called by the DCM to inform the application of any warnings or errors. 
The function returns DCM\_TRUE if a license code has been validated.

This application only needs to call this if using evaluation releases but can be called for all release types.

void DCM\_license\_message( char\* message, char\* ref\_string );

This Frustum function is only called from evaluation versions of the software. 
It returns a text message (message) that gives warnings or errors from the licensing software, and a reference string (ref\_string) that can be used to obtain a valid authorisation code.

Note that this function is not registered using register\_frustum\_functions but must always be provided for evaluation versions of the DCM static library. 
Also note that this function will not be called if a function has not been registered using the DCM2\_license function above.

