## 15.17 The Example Programs

The example program illustrates the uses of some of the DCM functions. 
It is intended to supplement the descriptions in this Manual and to assist with the development of applications that use the DCM libraries. 
Building and running the example program also verifies that the DCM software has been installed correctly.

The tutorial programs are a set of simpler source code examples that introduce the minimum elements required to implement each feature in turn.

In addition, a C language program is provided that makes very basic calls to DCM, to demonstrate use of the C interface (ex2\_c).

The example and tutorial programs are supplied as part of the DCM deliverables. 
Details about how the program is delivered and how to run it are included in the Release Notes document sent with the release.

### 15.17.1 Using the 2D DCM tutorials

Each tutorial directory contains a complete set of files required to build an executable, using the DCM headers and libraries from their standard locations. 
Makefiles and solutions are provided for each platform.

### 15.17.2 Use of the example program

The example program is written in C++, and consists of a sequence of independent functions. 
Each function is intended to demonstrate a particular feature of the DCM. 
At the end of each function, all of the geometry and dimensions are deleted from the DCM. 
There is no graphical output but the functions write messages to standard output.

Note that journalling is switched on for the entire example program. 
It is possible to examine the journal file to get full details of all DCM and Frustum functions called. 
Application builders can modify the example program in order to investigate the behaviour of the DCM. 
For example, calls to debug\_xmit can be inserted in order to create a file that can subsequently be read into Analyse.

### 15.17.3 Structure of the example program

This section lists the files, which make up the example program. 
Note that for some platforms the C++ source files have the '.cc' extension of '.cpp'.

- example.cpp \- The main file
- ex\_frus.cpp  \- The Frustum functions used by the example program.
- ex\_geom.hxx \- Application data (geometry, dimensions, equations, etc.) definitions.
- ex\_geom.cpp \- Functions to manipulate application data.
- ex\_utils.cpp \- Utilities to support the program.

