## 15.15 Support for third party maths libraries

The 2D DCM uses a combination of analytic and numerical solving techniques to ensure that it can solve the widest possible range of models, and to give the best behaviour, depending on the solving mode. 
For those models where numerical solving techniques are used, parts of the algorithm perform standard matrix mathematics operations. 
The 2D DCM has internal implementations of these operations which are optimised for the typical models that are seen in the majority of users. 
However, there are alternative algorithms available which scale better for very large matrices. 
In particular, the LAPACK library provides some functions which give better performance for very large DCM models.

The 2D DCM includes a mechanism to replace certain default 2D DCM algorithms with standard implementations provided by the LAPACK library. 
The LAPACK routines are not compiled directly within the 2D DCM binaries; instead, it is possible for a customer to register the functions that implement these library functions with 2D DCM such that they can be used in place of the internal defaults.

The result is that solving for very large models can be significantly faster, particularly where the LAPACK implementation is able to take advantage of multiple processor cores.

The DCM allows an application to register external maths functions via a new maths frustum function. 
This registration is analogous to the registration of application functions via the existing DCM frustum. 
These functions will optionally be called by the DCM to solve large linear systems and single value decompositions more efficiently than the DCM can do internally. 
If the application does not register these functions, the DCM will use the pre-existing DCM maths functions as before. 
If the application is to use external maths libraries, then all the specified functions (a total of three for this version) must be registered. 
If one or more are not registered, then the pre-existing DCM maths functions will be used.

The MKL implementation of the LAPACK algorithms have been found to give improved performance for models over a particular size, compared to the pre-existing DCM implementations. 
For smaller models, the existing DCM algorithms are more efficient and give better results. 
Therefore, the external functions will not be called in all cases involving numerical solving. 
The majority of models requiring numerical solving techniques will continue to be handled entirely by the DCM’s own algorithms.

The DCM has been tested with version 10.3 of the Intel MKL library, which provides implementations of the LAPACK algorithms, on Windows platforms. 
There is no reason for the DCM to not work with any implementation of LAPACK, but any other implementation has not been tested, and is considered unsupported.

### 15.15.1 Debugging with LAPACK functions

When LAPACK algorithms are being used with 2D DCM, it will potentially affect the behaviour of the solver and therefore affect the reproducibility of issues reported to D-Cubed components support. 
To assist with debugging cases that use LAPACK, applications should register and implement the maths library Frustum version function maths\_get\_version. 
This will allow DCM to write out the version of the LAPACK library used with the journal file, so that D-Cubed can use a compatible version whilst debugging any issues.

Unlike other 2D DCM interface calls, calls made to the maths frustum functions are not generally written out to journal files. 
This is because of the quantity of data that would be output and also because this information is not generally required to reproduce issues. 
Journalling of the maths functions can be switched on via a new option in DCM\_journal\_options. 
This is off by default, as the journal files can become very large if it is on. 
We would recommend that this option is kept switched off unless it is specifically requested by D-Cubed Components Support for a particular bug.

