## 15.11 Modelling advanced constraints with non-linear equations

This section describes how an application can use geometries in non-linear equations to implement advanced constraints e.g. 
the area of a loop, the centroid of a loop etc.

### 15.11.1 Constraining a scalar value

This section describes how it possible to constrain a scalar valued function (e.g. 
the length of a loop, the area of a loop, etc.) using geometry nodes in a non-linear equation. 
To do this an application needs to:

- Add a non-linear equation to the DCM.
- Add all the geometries on which the scalar value depends to this equation.

f(g1, g2, …, gn) = 0.0
- Calculate the residual of the equation



f(g1, g2, …, gn) \- required\_value = residual



when the DCM calls the Frustum function DCM\_equation\_residual, where required\_value is the value of the constrained entity. 
The residual is calculated by using current geometry positions and variable values. 
See the section [17.9 Frustum functions for variables and equations](17.9._Frustum_functions_for_variables_and_equations.md)

The required value may be a variable (v1). This could be added to the non-linear equation.

For example to bound the length of a loop made up of several curves, the application would add each curve (not strictly necessary for lines) and the bounding points to the non-linear equation. 
It is not necessary to add linear edges to the equation as the length is defined only by the bounding points.

Note that PGM allows the length of a loop to be dimensioned directly using a curve length dimension.

### 15.11.2 Constraining a vector value

Section [15.11.1 Constraining a scalar value](#_Ref469990341) shows how geometry nodes in non-linear equations can be used to constrain a scalar value (e.g. 
the perimeter length of a profile). This method may be extended to constrain a vector value e.g. 
the centroid of a profile. 
In this case a separate equation is required for each component of the vector.

For example, an application could constrain a point to be at the centroid of a profile as follows:

- Add all the profile (points and curves) geometries (g1, g2, …, gn) to the DCM.
- Add a point (P) for the centroid.
- Add two non-linear equations and add all the profile geometries (points and curves) to both equations.

f(g1, g2, …, gn, P) = 0.0
- Calculate the residual of these equations when the DCM calls the Frustum function DCM\_equation\_residual. 
The difference between the two equations is that one equation would only use the x component of P and the second equation would use the y component.



The residual is calculated by using current geometry positions and variable values. 
See the section [17.9 Frustum functions for variables and equations](17.9._Frustum_functions_for_variables_and_equations.md)

