## 15.12 Known limitations

This section lists cases where the DCM may not be able to find a valid solution, even though a solution does exist.

- The DCM will solve pattern constraints more reliably if the copies are all patterned from a single "master" copy and dimensions are added to the master copy.
- Inequalities should only be used on under-constrained models to influence the solution that is returned by the DCM. 
The DCM will attempt to solve models where several inequalities have to be made active, but may not be able to do this in all cases.
- The DCM may not be able to solve non-linear equations where the start values of the variables are at a singularity of the equation.
- It is normally advantageous to apply all known constraints to the model. 
For example, in a symmetric profile all of the geometry should be made symmetric even though many of these constraints are unnecessary. 
Patterns are a known exception, in which case models will be solved more efficiently if dimensions are only placed onto the geometries in one instance of the pattern.

### 15.12.1 Limitations when using 2D DCM with PGM

PGM can be used in conjunction with 2D DCM and allows the application to handle bounded and connected geometry, and to perform sophisticated offset and trimming operations. 
Detailed information on the integration of both 2D DCM and PGM can be found in the PGM manual, if supplied.

There are limitations in the use of 2D DCM functionalities with PGM.

Lock constraints (DCM\_LOCK\_WHOLE, DCM\_LOCK\_CENTRE, DCM\_LOCK\_DIRECTION) are currently not fully supported in PGM when applied to base loops.

