## 15.14 Avoiding performance problems

The points listed below will affect the performance of the DCM. 
However, the solution that is found should not be affected.

- Avoid using the DCM for simple operations that are required frequently, and can easily be done in the application. 
For example, do not use the DCM just to find if a point lies on a line.
- The time taken for most DCM operations is proportional to the number of geometries in the model. 
Hence an application should minimise the number of geometries in the DCM whenever this is possible. 
For example, if two bounded lines meet at an end, only a single point is necessary there. 
If two points are used, the application should ensure they are made coincident.
- Adding midpoints to bounded lines will increase the time taken by the DCM to solve a model. 
This should be avoided unless the midpoints are necessary.
- Avoid using models that require numerical solving. 
It is possible to stop the DCM solving models that contain configurations of points, lines and circles that require numerical solving.
- Do not use an excessive number of fixed geometries. 
Fixed geometries will affect the DCM performance even if there are no constraints to them.
- When working with rigid sets, the DCM only needs to be given free geometries in a set that have constraints to geometries outside of the set. 
Other free geometries will not affect the solution and need not be put into the DCM.
- Do not drag a large number of geometries.
- Use incremental evaluation whenever possible, and only calculate the status of well-defined geometries if it is necessary.
- It is possible to reduce the time taken to solve over-constrained models although this will reduce the amount of information returned to the application. 
See the function set\_option for details.
- Directed distances create lines internally to the DCM in order to enforce the direction. 
If the two points are already constrained to a line in the appropriate direction it would be better to apply a simple dimension rather than use a directed distance. 
If a large model is dimensioned entirely using directed distances there will be a significant degradation in performance.
- Models with patterns will be solved more efficiently if dimensions are only placed onto the geometries in one instance of the pattern.

There is a performance cost of using multiple symmetry axes, however there are ways of reducing this. 
Guidelines for efficient creation of a symmetric model are as follows:

- Apply symmetry constraints between all appropriate geometries, not just points and circles.
- When the geometries are made symmetric, duplicate the constraints between them and between them and the symmetric axis (e.g. 
parallel). This includes symmetric constraints about other axes.
- If a geometry is identical to its mirror image, constrain them identical instead of symmetric, plus:

- For a point, constrain it coincident with the axis.
- For a line, constrain it identical or perpendicular to the axis.
- For a circle, constrain its centre point coincident with the axis.
- For an ellipse, constraint its centre point coincident with the axis, and constrain it parallel or perpendicular to the axis.

Note that there are restrictions on using multiple symmetry axes - particularly if loops of symmetry constraints are introduced. 
The DCM may not solve models that contain more than 2-fold symmetry.

