## 15.3 Symmetric multiprocessing (SMP)

Recent releases of 2D DCM have seen a range of developments designed to take advantage of computers with multiple processor cores. 
2D DCM is threadsafe, enabling different instances of 2D DCM to be used to perform computations on different processors concurrently.

The 2D DCM also has the ability to use multiple processors when a calculation of a specific type and sufficient complexity is required, hence making the computation even faster. This is done by creating a series of independent, discrete DCM tasks; each representing a portion of a requested computation. The list of these tasks is passed out to the application via a Frustum function. The application will be required to set off these tasks using any desired parallelisation techniques (e.g OpenMP).

In this release, by default, the only calculations that 2D DCM will split into smaller tasks in this manner are caused by dimensions of type DCM\_CURVE\_LENGTH. 
This will only be done when the curve length calculation is sufficiently large to benefit from being split in this manner. 
While it is difficult to predict exactly when a calculation will be this complex, it is approximately when this dimension is applied to a 2D DCM spline with 20 or more control points. 
This functionality can be disabled using set\_option, with the key DCM\_OPKEY\_MULTITHREAD\_CURVELENGTH.

DCM can optionally be enabled to attempt to solve separate partitions within the model independently in separate parallel tasks. 
This is not enabled by default but can be turned on using a specific set\_option key (DCM\_OPKEY\_MULTITHREAD\_PARTITIONS\_MODE). This key allows for two modes of parallelisation: A mode intended for debugging that should maximise parallel threads, and a mode that aims to optimise the workload to avoid unnecessary small workloads being given output as tasks.

When parallel algorithms are available, 2D DCM will create a series of independent, discrete tasks, each representing a portion of that calculation. 
These tasks are then passed to the application using the Frustum function DCM\_run\_multiple\_tasks(), which needs to be registered in the same way as other Frustum functions. 
If this function is not registered, then 2D DCM will run the tasks itself in a single thread.

The application would then be expected execute each task, possibly in different threads, via a call to the interface function run\_single\_task(). Calls to any other DCM function from within DCM\_run\_multiple\_tasks as discouraged.

Note that when enabling all parallel functionality, it is possible that DCM will make additional calls to run\_multiple\_tasks from within the exectution of a particular run\_single\_task command. 
This would happen in the current version if a partitioned model contained significant curve length computations. 
Options can be used to prevent this by selecting only limited parallel methods at a time.

DCM function: [run\_single\_task](16.15._Miscellaneous_functions.md)

Frustum function: [DCM\_run\_multiple\_tasks](17.12._Miscellaneous_functions.md)

