## 15.4 .NET binding DLL

This section describes the Microsoft .NET binding DLL (or .NET wrapper) for the DCM, which enables DCM functions to be called directly from .NET (Managed) code. 
Using this wrapper customers creating Managed code can use the 2D DCM without having to write any unsafe code, or use any .NET/native interoperability functions (e.g. 
Marshalling); conversion between Managed and Native code is taken care of within the wrapper DLL.

This section assumes that you have a working knowledge of C# and some basic familiarity with .NET programming.

An example application written in C# is supplied as part of the release. 
See the release notes for details.

The .NET wrapper makes the DCM functionality available to .NET programs. 
It does this by calling the standard Native 2D DCM DLL (which is written in C++). There is no Managed (i.e. 
CLR only) build of 2D DCM.

The .NET binding is supplied as a single DLL named dcu2dnet<ver>.dll (or dcu2dnet<ver>\_l.dll for evaluation releases) that provides C# versions of DCM types, values and functions. 
This depends upon the regular 2D DCM DLL (dcu2d<ver>.dll) which will be loaded automatically when the .NET wrapper DLL is loaded by an application. 
There are 32- and 64-bit versions of this DLL to match the equivalent 2D DCM versions.

The wrapper interface is accompanied by an .xml file with the matching name (dcu2dnet<ver>.xml) to provide metadata to give help on the available functions.

Notes on using the .NET wrapper:

- The wrapper maintains the same class-based implementation with associated Frustum that is used by the C++ interface to 2D DCM, with the modifications that:

- The wrapper is contained entirely within the DCUnet namespace.
- The 2D DCM class name is therefore DCUnet::DCM2.
- Frustum functions are delegates in the .NET terminology.
- The C/C++ interface uses the void\* type to track the application’s reference to entities added to DCM. 
The .NET wrapper implementation uses the Object type.
- The DCUnet::DCM2 class implements the IDisposable interface, therefore Dispose() must be called instead of the C++ destructor.

- To create an instance of the DCM:

C/C++:   dimension\_system \* mydcm = new dimension\_system()

.NET:DCUnet.DCM2 MyDcm = new DCUnet.DCM2()



.NET journaling requires another constructor to be used (see the end of this section for details).
- Interface functions are similar to the C++ interface but have new names giving a closer match to C# coding conventions:

C/C++:add\_g()dynamic\_evaluate()

.NET:AddG ()DynamicEvaluate ()



Some functions have new names altogether, e.g.

C/C++:change\_pointer()journal\_by\_ptr()

.NET:ChangeObject()JournalByTextWriter()
- C# language features that allowed for simplification of the use of the 2D DCM interface have been implemented. 
For example:

- Use of the out and ref keywords for function arguments, together with .NET array containers, allows functions that enquire data from 2D DCM to use a single call. 
If using C++, the memory for the returned array is allocated by the application (typically the enquiry function is called twice, first to determine the amount of memory required and again after allocating the memory). The .NET wrapper takes care of this so the application just needs to call the function with appropriate arguments.

C++:int  list\_g\_nodes(int ng=0, g\_node\*\*gna=NULL, void\*\*aga=NULL);

.NET:int ListGNodes(out object\[\]) and

int  ListGNodes()

- The C++ interface uses a pair of pointers for each entity added to DCM (e.g. 
the application and g\_node/d\_node). These have been replaced by a single reference to an object. 
This object can be of any type defined by the application since it will inherit from the system object type.



Hence the following function is not required in .NET:

C++:application\_pointer()
- Functions which return DCM pointers (e.g. 
add\_g) will return a bool for success or failure:

C++:g\_node\*  gn = mydcm->add\_g(myDCMpointer, app\_pointer);

.NET:bool Ok = MyDcm.AddG(MyGeomObject)



To fix this geometry:

C++:mydcm->fix(gn);

.NET:MyDcm.Fix(MyGeomObject);
- Enumeration types are changed to take advantage of the namespace by reducing duplication.

C++:DCM\_g\_typeDCM\_POINT

.NET:DCUnet.DCM2.GTypeDCUnet.DCM2.GType.Point.

- DCM\_logical has been replaced by the standard type bool.
- For evaluation releases, an exception (of type LicenseException, derived from the standard Exception class) will be raised with an appropriate message if a valid license code is not found.
- When using the .NET wrapper, journaling can be done in two complementary ways:



Native journalling in the DCM – Note that this type of journaling is not thread safe. 
If the application has multiple instances of the DCM and journaling has been enabled, the application must force the garbage collector to collect and then wait for pending finalizers to complete on removing the last reference to a DCM to prevent any problems.



.NET journaling – This requires creating and calling a dedicated journaler. 
Please see the dcu2dnet<ver>.xml file that accompanies the wrapper for details of the .NET journaling interface. 
The functions of interest are: DCUnet.Journaler and a modified DCM constructor that enables journaling via such .NET journalers. 
Note that unlike in the usual native DCM journaling, .NET journaling produces one journal file for each instance of the DCM.



In order to record as much debug information as possible (e.g. 
when reporting a bug), it is advised to produce both types of journals.

