## 15.5 Data handling

The application is free to define any type of data structure, since the information is always accessed through the Frustum routines and all the DCM ever uses is a pointer. 
Clearly though, the application data structures must contain the information needed by the DCM.

The application needs to preserve any data that it has declared to the DCM. 
It also has to keep a record of DCM nodes and the connectivity of the dimensioning scheme since this cannot be recovered from the DCM.

### 15.5.1 Application references (application pointer)

For most data that is loaded into 2D DCM, it is expected that an application reference value will be provided when the time (in DCM, a node) is created. 
This reference is passed using the (void\*) type, which means it can store a pointer to an object. 
However, if can also be used to store any data of the same size as a pointer.

This reference is then passed out in any Frustum enquiries specific to the data item so the application can identify the context of the call. 
The frustum functions also use the type (void\*).

The value of an application reference can take any value aside from 0. Customers are advised to avoid using the value 0, which prevents confusion with a null pointer. 
Some DCM nodes can be created so that they have an application reference of 0. These include those for which no Frustum functions are required, such as rigid linear equations with a static constant term.

In general, DCM will not call Frustum functions when the only context to identify the relevant node is a reference of 0. This will cause many attempts to add such nodes to be rejected as mandatory frustum functions would be unavailable (e.g., DCM\_g\_identify). However, functions such as DCM\_erased\_node, which provide both the application reference and DCM node pointer, will be called where the application reference is 0.

### 15.5.2 Storage of geometry and dimension data

The following sections give some information about the requirements for the application data structures for dimensions and geometries.

#### 15.5.2.1 Line directions

The DCM uses the direction of a line to determine how an angle dimension should be solved, and which side of the line a dimension will measure to (i.e. 
which chirality). Hence, it is necessary for an application to maintain the direction of the line and only to change it when requested to do so by the DCM.

An important consequence of this is that applications cannot rely upon using the start and end of a bounded line to define its direction. 
Apart from the special case where the points are coincident, it is possible for the DCM to move the points so that they are swapped over.

#### 15.5.2.2 Erasing data

When a node is erased from the DCM, an internal clean-up is conducted that can often remove other nodes added by the application. 
The simplest example of this is that when a g\_node is being erased, any d\_nodes attached to it are also erased. 
To assist the application, the DCM calls a Frustum function to inform the application when a node has been erased within the DCM. 
This is function is called whenever a node is erased, whether it has been explicitly called in an erase function or not.

The application could use this function to build a list of application objects that need to be erased after the original call to the erase function returns.

#### 15.5.2.3 Importance of the position on the line

A line is represented to the DCM as a vector that gives the position on the line and a vector that gives the direction. 
In most cases this definition is redundant and the application can return a position anywhere on the line and vary the length of the direction vector without changing the behaviour of the DCM.

However, changing the position can make a difference if geometry is under-defined. 
A specific case where this occurs is if the DCM has to rotate a line in order to satisfy a constraint. 
In this case, if the constraint involves two lines, then the DCM may rotate the line about the intersection point, provided that this is within the size box. 
However, if there are no constraints that affect the position of the line, and the DCM cannot detect any other suitable position to rotate the line about, then the DCM may choose to rotate the line about the position returned by the application.

In Analyse, a bounded line is made up of an unbounded line and two points. 
The position returned on the line is adjusted so that it is always midway between the two points. 
It is possible to see the current position by using the Graphics... Base points command.

#### 15.5.2.4 Help points and help parameters

It will be necessary for the application to store help points on dimensions and constraints to circles and ellipses, and help parameters on dimensions and constraints to parametrics. 
Note that for some cases, for example a distance dimension between two circles, two help points are necessary.

Although it is possible to implement a data structure for dimensions and constraints which does not use help points it is recommended that they are used. 
Without help points, dimensions to circles can only be minimum distance dimensions and directed distance dimensions cannot be used. 
See section [4.1.2.1 Minimum distance dimension](4.1._Dimensions_with_a_value.md)

#### 15.5.2.5 Bounded geometry

The DCM only supports lines, circles and ellipses that are unbounded. 
However most applications will need to represent bounded geometry. 
Bounded curves can be represented in the DCM by creating the unbounded geometry together with the start and end points, and constraining these points to be coincident with the unbounded geometry. 
The application will need to maintain a record of the relationship between the points and the unbounded geometry. 
More complex data structures, such as closed loops, can also be built up. 
Note that a separate component is available to help with managing the higher level entities that may be required for sketching, the Profile Geometry Manager (D-Cubed PGM).

#### 15.5.2.6 Working with 3D data

Since the application is always responsible for storing the data for the DCM it is possible to work on a two-dimensional subset of a three-dimensional space. 
The application transforms the data to 2D and back to 3D in the Frustum routines.

Note that a line whose direction is parallel to the projection plane normal could be represented as a point although this would have to be changed if the view was modified. 
See the comments in the section [3.3 Geometry directions](3.3._Geometry_directions.md)
In a similar way, a 3D parametric curve projected into 2D may contain discontinuities.

### 15.5.3 Cached Frustum calls

The default action of the DCM is to store data internally in order to reduce the number of calls made to the Frustum. 
If an application has an efficient Frustum, and wishes to minimise the amount of memory used by the DCM, it can choose to switch off this caching for geometry positions with the set\_option DCM function.

### 15.5.4 Changing data independently of the DCM

The application is free to transform the geometry and change the dimension data values independently of the DCM, although this can normally only be done between calls to DCM functions. 
It is also possible to change the constant and coefficient values in equations. 
However, the type of an entity cannot be altered, and the application must delete and recreate an entity to do this (for example, if a line is "bent" into an arc).

Refer to section [2.5.3.3 Incremental evaluation after changing the model outside DCM](2.5._Evaluating_the_model.md)

### 15.5.5 Using the DCM with history based systems

The DCM includes facilities that allow it to be used within a history-based system where the model is regenerated in a sequence following any changes. 
The following features are relevant to this usage:

- Fixed and frozen geometry - Typically, an application will allow the user to construct a model and then to use the DCM to sketch a profile on a face of the model. 
In this case geometry can be fixed where the DCM should not move it. 
See chapter [6\. Fixed, Frozen and Free Geometry](6._Fixed,_Frozen_and_Free_Geometry.md)
- move\_and\_evaluate function - This function can be used to update the fixed geometry used for sketching, if this is moved independently of the DCM. 
See section [16.8.3 move\_and\_evaluate - Evaluate preserving chirality](16.8._Model_evaluation.md)

### 15.5.6 Error checking

The DCM does little checking of arguments in either the DCM or the Frustum interfaces since this is likely to duplicate the application's own checking. 
It is therefore important to ensure that correct arguments are passed. 
If an error is suspected, it is possible to use the journal function to write out details of all calls to DCM and Frustum functions.

#### 15.5.6.1 Exception handling

The 2D DCM libraries do not deliberately throw exceptions and therefore the libraries do not attempt to catch exceptions, instead preferring to pass them up to the calling application code that should be able to handle them. 
It is possible for application code called by DCM via the Frustum to throw() an exception. 
In very limited cases, DCM code that makes system calls that can also throw(), such as when attempt to access files in debug\_xmit and journal\_by\_name.

Application code can be written to catch these exceptions and handle them. 
In the case of a Frustum exception, these would best be caught before the Frustum function returns as this may allow the DCM operation to continue unaffected. 
If this is not the case, however, then the DCM callstack can be allowed to unwind and the exception caught by the function that called DCM. 
In that case, DCM will not be left in a good state and the instance should be deleted and recreated before doing further DCM operations.

It should be noted that DCM instances are deleted via C++ destructors and that if a DCM that is non-empty is deleted, Frustum functions can be called to advise the application of the erasing of the model data (i.e. 
DCM\_erased\_node\_function). In general it is considered advisable in C++ that destructors do not throw exceptions and from C++11 this is the default behaviour in the standard. 
For the main DCM destructor, however, this default is not appropriate, since customer frustum functions may be written that do throw exceptions. 
To ensure there are no callbacks from the DCM destructor, the erase\_all function can be called first to ensure no nodes remain to be erased.

DCM destructors to pass back customer exceptions to the calling application. 
Therefore, the compiler option to allow C++ destructors to throw exceptions has been specified.

The behaviour is highly platform dependent, so there could be differences between exceptions passed on Windows platforms and Unix platforms. 
We might change the behaviour of the libraries in the future.

#### 15.5.6.2 Interrupts and aborting

The DCM has no facilities for handling interrupts. 
If a DCM function is interrupted, its data structures may be corrupt. 
Unless the application has implemented facilities for freeing the memory used by the DCM the only safe action is to stop the program. 
However, the application can call the DCM command [set\_option](16.2._Configure_global_DCM_behaviour.md)
An application can use this to request that the DCM should stop processing as quickly as possible.

The DCM assumes that all requests to allocate memory will be successful and no attempt is made to recover if memory cannot be allocated. 
However, all memory is allocated by the C++ function new. 
It is possible for an application to replace the standard new function with a version that will check for unsuccessful attempts to allocate memory.

### 15.5.7 Incremental graphics

The DCM supports incremental updating of the application data, such as incremental graphics. 
The DCM only changes geometry via the Frustum routines DCM\_transform, DCM\_scale\_transform and DCM\_set\_radius, DCM\_set\_major\_radius and DCM\_set\_minor\_radius. 
In addition, the DCM informs the application using DCM\_g\_status of any geometry that has changed status. 
The application can use information from these routines to update the display structure as appropriate.

### 15.5.8 Reversing operations

Since the results of an evaluation are independent of order or time sequence, operations can be reversed by recreating the previous DCM structure and resetting the positions of the geometries. 
The DCM can be used to reset the geometry by using the undo\_evaluation function. 
Using this function, it is possible to reset the model to either the initial position (the position before the most recent full evaluation) or to the previous position (the position before the most recent evaluation).

See chapter [16\. The DCM Interface](16._The_DCM_Interface.md)

### 15.5.9 Saving data

Data can be saved and restored by the application saving the dimensioning and geometric information independently of the DCM. 
The DCM structure is retrieved by recreating the DCM geometry and dimension nodes.

