## 13.3 Constraint deduction

Constraint deduction is an alternative method of automatically finding logical constraints and uses the DCM function deduce\_constraints. 
This functionality is similar to autoconstrain (which is described in section [13.1 Autoconstraining](13.1._13.1._Autoconstraining.md)

This functionality differs from autoconstrain in the following ways:

- deduce\_constraints takes no such account of existing dimensions, constraints and sets in the model. 
This means that it can lead to over-dimensioned models.
- deduce\_constraints is generally faster the autoconstrain because the DCM does not perform any checks to ensure the model will not be over-defined.

To use deduce\_constraints, the application must supply the following information:

- A linear and an angular tolerance.
- The type of constraint to search for.
- Optionally, one, two, three or four geometries. 
If one geometry is given, only constraints onto this geometry will be found. 
For example, it would be possible to find all geometries tangent to a given circle. 
If two geometries are given, the DCM will search for a constraint of the given type between these two geometries. 
For example, this can be used to discover if a line is tangent to a circle. 
If three geometries are given, the DCM will search for a symmetry constraint between these geometries.

As with autoconstrain, the DCM will find constraints based upon the position of the geometries and it will return information to the application either as equivalence classes (identical, parallel, concentric, equal radius and equal distance cases) or specific constraints (all other constraints). The application must then determine whether to apply the constraints. 
Note that it will not be possible to add all constraints between equivalence class members in a model that includes any dimensions or rigid sets. 
See section [13.1.1 Equivalence classes](13.1._13.1._Autoconstraining.md)

By default, deduce\_constraints is designed to minimise the number of constraints that need to be added to fully define all the relationships that are found.

It is possible to alter this behaviour so that deduce\_constraints identifies the maximum number of constraints that can be applied. 
For example, to force the DCM to return perpendicular constraints for all corners of a rectangle, the DCM must be asked to maximise the constraints return.

To control this behaviour, applications should use the set\_option function to set the DCM\_OPKEY\_DEDUCE\_CONSTRAINTS\_LEVEL option to DCM\_OPVAL\_LEVEL\_1 (the default), to return the minimum number of constraints, or DCM\_OPVAL\_LEVEL\_2, to return the maximum number of constraints. 
N.B. 
this option will not affect the number of geometries that are identified in equivalence classes - the DCM will always list the full set of mutually parallel lines, for example.

In general, deduce\_constraints is less flexible than autoconstrain and it is recommended that applications should use autoconstrain.

DCM function: [deduce\_constraints](16.11._Autodimensioning_and_autoconstraining.md)

Frustum functions: [DCM\_deduced\_class](17.10._Functions_for_constraint_deduction_and_autodimensioning.md)

