## 3.2 Classification of geometry

To understand what combinations of geometry and dimensions are possible, it is useful to classify the geometry into a number of types.

- Parametric geometry



Any curve that has a parameter that identifies each unique position along the curve. 
This includes evaluated parametric geometries, splines, conics, and offset & copy curves.
- Evaluated parametric geometries



The definition of an evaluated parametric curve is held by the application and is enquired as required by the DCM using evaluator functions. 
Not all information about parametric curves is given in this chapter. 
Full details are in chapter [7\. Overview of parametric geometry](7._Overview_of_parametric_geometry.md)
- Spline geometries



Splines can have the same dimensions and constraints as evaluated parametric curves. 
Full details are in section [8\. Spline curves](8._Spline_curves.md)
- Geometries with internal freedoms



Circles, conics, and ellipses have internal freedoms. 
For a circle, this corresponds to the radius of the circle. 
For an ellipse there are two internal freedoms which correspond to the major and minor radii. 
Note that there is no requirement that the major radius is greater than the minor radius. 
These internal freedoms can be set directly with radius dimensions, or they may be found to satisfy other dimensions. 
For a DCM conic, the value ρ is an internal freedom.



Points and lines do not have any internal freedoms. 
Parametric curves have internal freedoms that can be changed by the application, but the DCM is not able to change the shape of a parametric curve directly.
- Curved geometries



Circles, ellipses and parametrics are classified as curved geometries. 
An important property of curved geometries is that a dimension to another geometry may have more than one possible interpretation. 
For example, a distance dimension between a line and a circle can measure to two different points on the circle where the tangent direction is parallel to the line. 
Typically, an application will support arcs as well as complete circles, and it may be important to specify which interpretation should be used. 
There are always two interpretations for dimensions to circles and ellipses. 
A complex parametric curve may have several possible interpretations of a dimension.
- Geometries with a direction



Lines have a direction. 
Less obviously, ellipses, conics, evaluated parametrics, splines and linear patterns also have a direction.



On an ellipse the direction is taken to be the direction of the major axis. 
On a conic, the direction is that of the axis of the underlying unbounded conic section. 
The direction of an evaluated parametric is assigned by the application and can be defined in any way that the application chooses. 
The directions of splines and linear patterns are inferred by the DCM.



Angle dimensions, parallel constraints and perpendicular constraints can only be applied between geometries with a direction.

