## 3.5 Scalable sets

The application may require a collection of geometries whose shape cannot change but their scale may change. 
This can be achieved with the DCM by using a scalable set.

Unlike a rigid set, a scalable set does not automatically have a total of three degrees of freedom. 
A scalable set instead derives its degrees of freedom from the contained geometries.

A scalable set also has a scaling transform as a property, which is an internal freedom, and allows the DCM to scale the set uniformly in order to solve the model.

Note that a single distance or radius dimension can be placed between the geometries in a scalable set and its value can be changed in order to control the scaling freedom. 
Any additional distance or radius dimensions will make the model over-defined. 
All other types of dimensions and constraints in a scalable set will be ignored when the model is solved by the DCM.

Scalable sets that scale will scale about a point in the set, if possible. 
An additional feature for scalable sets is that the application may add a point to the set and specify that this is the preferred scaling centre. 
When possible, the DCM will use this as the centre of the scaling for the set. 
This point can be defined using the Frustum function DCM\_scaling\_centre. 
Note that in previous versions of the DCM, scaling behaviour was less related to the geometry positions in the set. 
A DCM option switch exists to revert to this old behaviour.

A scalable set is created in the DCM similarly to a rigid set (see above). When working with scalable sets, the geometry must be updated with reference to both a transform matrix and a scaling factor.

Frustum functions: [DCM\_scaling\_centre](17.12._Miscellaneous_functions.md)

