## 8.3 Defining a spline curve using interpolation conditions

It is also possible to generate NURBS curves that pass through a sequence of positions, which are sometimes referred to as spline points. 
This type of curve is referred to as an interpolating curve. 
The DCM supports a more general definition and allows the curve to also interpolate between other conditions. 
For example, it is possible to specify the tangent at a particular parameter value and the DCM will generate a curve which satisfies this condition.

To define an interpolating curve, the following information is passed to the DCM:

- The rigidity, periodicity and degree of the curve as above.
- The dependence of the curve. 
An interpolation curve (i.e. 
a curve where no control points are specified by the application) may be dependent either on the interpolation conditions initially added or on the control points created by the DCM when the spline is created. 
See [8.6.1 Control point and interpolation point dependence](8.6._Controlling_spline_solving_behaviour.md)
- An array (of minimum size degree+1) of parameter values, each one of which corresponds to an interpolation condition. 
These parameter values will remain fixed during DCM evaluation unless the application implements re-parameterisation or tells the DCM to implement an automatic chord length parameterisation. 
This requires setting the optional parameterisation field appropiately (see [8.6.2 Re-parameterisation of interpolated splines](8.6._Controlling_spline_solving_behaviour.md)
- An array (of minimum size degree+1) of interpolation conditions. 
These can be of a wide range of types. 
For example:



\- An interpolation vector (position in space) though which the curve will pass



\- An interpolation point (g\_node) though which the curve will pass



\- A derivative condition



Full details of what conditions are supported are in section [16.6.2 Interpolation condition types](16.6._Spline_functions.md)

If a spline curve is generated using interpolation positions the DCM will automatically calculate the positions of the control points which satisfy these conditions. 
As was mentioned above, an application is able to enquire the control point positions from the DCM.

Note that it is possible to define a spline curve using a combination of control points, interpolation points and interpolation conditions.

