## 17.11 Functions for external maths libraries

The 2D DCM allows the application to use external maths libraries, which implement LAPACK, for specific mathematical operations. 
The result is that solving for very large models can be significantly faster, particularly where the LAPACK implementation is able to take advantage of multiple cpu cores.

The following function definitions need to be included in the frustum definition, so that the DCM can access the corresponding functions in the LAPACK implementation. 
The location of the comparable LAPACK implementations should be provided by the application via the function register\_maths\_frustum\_functions.

### 17.11.1 LAPACK functions

void DCM\_dgels(char\* trans, DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* m,

DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* n, DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* nrhs,

double\* A, DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* lda, double\* b,

DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* ldb, double\* work\_size,

DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* lwork, DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* info);

void DCM\_dgesdd (char\* jobz, DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* m,

DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* n, double\* A,

DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* lda, double\* s, double\* U,

DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* ldu, double\* Vt,

DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* ldvt, double\* work\_size,

DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* lwork, DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* iwork,      DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* info);

void DCM\_dgesv (DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* n, DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* nrhs,

double\* A, DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* lda,

DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* ipiv, double\* b,

DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* ldb, DCM\_LAPACK\_INT\* info);

These function definitions match those provided by the LAPACK library ( [http://www.netlib.org/lapack](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/), Copyright (c) 1992-2019 The University of Tennessee), implementations of which are available from a range of software vendors.

Applications may register implementations of all of these functions (see section [16.1.4 Registering maths frustum functions](16.1._Constructing_and_deleting_a_dimension_system.md)

Note that the type DCM\_LAPACK\_INT has been defined to be simply int in this version of 2D DCM.

For this release, the 2D DCM has only been tested with the LAPACK implementation included in the version 11.2 of the Intel MKL® library on windows platforms. 
Use with any other implementation cannot be guaranteed to work.

### 17.11.2 DCM\_maths\_get\_version – Get version of external maths library

void DCM\_maths\_get\_version (DCM\_LAPACK\_version\_info\* v);

Called by DCM to get the version information for an external maths library that has been registered in order to output it to a DCM journal file for debugging purposes.

The application should fill in the data in the DCM\_LAPACK\_version\_info struct:

- major\_version – The major version of the library (integer).
- minor\_version – The minor version of the library (integer).
- build\_number – The build number of the external library (integer).
- product\_status – String (unused).
- product – String for product name.
- build – String for build description
- processor – String for processor description.

This function is optional.

