## 17.10 Functions for constraint deduction and autodimensioning

Note that several of these functions output information about help points and help parameters. 
These are given even if the help points are optional. 
If the particular constraint cannot have a help point the array is DCM\_NULL, and if a geometry is not a parametric the help parameters will be zero. 
See chapter [2\. Fundamental DCM Concepts](2._Fundamental_DCM_Concepts.md)

If required the application can add the dimensions or constraints found by the DCM to the model by calling the function add\_d or add\_r from within the Frustum. 
However, no other DCM functions can be called.

### 17.10.1 DCM\_automatic\_class – Output equivalence classes

void DCM\_automatic\_class(

DCM\_d\_type type,  // Dimension type

int n\_gn,   // Length of arrays

void\*\* gn\_array,  // DCM g\_nodes

void\*\* ag\_array );  // Application pointers

Called by the DCM as a result of the application calling the function autoconstrain. 
The function informs the application of an equivalence class. 
An example of an equivalence class is a parallel equivalence class containing a number of lines that are parallel to each other (within the current tolerances). See section [13.1.1 Equivalence classes](13.1._13.1._13.1._13.1._Autoconstraining.md)

The function passes a dimension type, which will be DCM\_COINCIDENT, DCM\_PARALLEL, DCM\_CONCENTRIC, DCM\_EQUAL\_RADIUS or EQUAL\_DISTANCE. 
It also passes the g\_nodes and application geometry nodes for all of the geometries in the equivalence class. 
These are passed in two arrays, together with an integer that gives the length of each array.

The application should add the constraints to the model by calling the function add\_d from within the Frustum when this function is called. 
However, no other DCM functions can be called. 
See section [13.1 Autoconstraining](13.1._13.1._13.1._13.1._Autoconstraining.md)

For equal distance constraints, the geometry arrays will contain pairs of geometries which are the same distance apart. 
e.g. 
ag\_array = \[ line3.start, line3.end, line4.start, line4.end, line7.end, line7.start\]. This would indicate that the three application lines 3, 4 and 7 were the same length.

### 17.10.2 DCM\_automatic\_constraint – Output specific constraints

void DCM\_automatic\_constraint(

DCM\_d\_type type,   // Dimension type

void\* gn1, void\* gn2,   // DCM g\_nodes

void\* ag1, void\* ag2,   // Application pointers

double hpt1\[2\], double hpt2\[2\], // Help points

double hpar1, double hpar2 );  // Help parameters

Called by the DCM as a result of the application calling the function autoconstrain. 
This function informs the application of specific constraints that are satisfied by the current location of the geometry.

The function is passed the type of constraint, the g\_nodes and application geometry nodes of the geometries, and (where necessary) information about help points and help parameters.

The application should add the constraints to the model by calling the function add\_d from within the Frustum when this function is called. 
However, no other DCM functions can be called. 
See section [13.1 Autoconstraining](13.1._13.1._13.1._13.1._Autoconstraining.md)

### 17.10.3 DCM\_automatic\_constraint3 – Output symmetry constraint

void DCM\_automatic\_constraint3(

DCM\_d\_type type,   // Dimension type

void\* gn1, void\* gn2, void\* gn3, // DCM g\_nodes

void\* ag1, void\* ag2, void\* ag3 );  // Application pointers

This function is similar to the function DCM\_automatic\_constraint. 
It informs the application of symmetry constraint that has been found by a call to the function autoconstrain. 
Geometries (ag1 and ag2) are found to be symmetrical about the axis (ag3).

### 17.10.4 DCM\_autocon\_weight – Return automatic constraint weight

double DCM\_autocon\_weight(

DCM\_d\_type type,    // Dimension type

void\* gn1, void\* gn2,    // DCM g\_nodes

void\* ag1, void\* ag2,    // Application pointers

double hpt1\[2\], double hpt2\[2\],  // Help points

double hpar1, double hpar2 );  // Help parameters

double DCM\_autocon\_weight3(

DCM\_d\_type type,   // Dimension type

void\* gn1, void\* gn2, void\* gn3, // DCM g\_nodes

void\* ag1, void\* ag2, void\* ag3 ); // Application pointers

These functions return a "weight" for each of the constraints. 
The weight will be used to determine how a constraint should be applied to the model – a negative weight will be taken to mean "do not apply". Positive weights will determine the application’s preference for a constraint – constraints with greater weights will be applied earlier during autoconstraining and might displace less-preferred constraints.

### 17.10.5 DCM\_autodim\_weight - Return dimension weight

double DCM\_autodim\_weight(

DCM\_d\_type type, double value,  // Dimension type, value

void\* ag1, void\* ag2,    // Application pointers

double hpt1\[2\], double hpt2\[2\],  // Help points

double hpar1, double hpar2 );  // Help parameters

Called by the function autodimension with information about a dimension. 
The application should return the weight to use for this dimension. 
The weights are used to decide the order in which dimensions should be applied to the model. 
The dimension with the highest weight will be tried first. 
The DCM will not try dimensions with a negative weight.

This function is given the type of dimension, its value, the geometries it is on (the second geometry is DCM\_NULL for radii), and help points or help parameters where these are possible.

Typically, the DCM will have a large number of possible dimensions that can be added to a model. 
It will be necessary to call this function for each possible dimension in order to determine the order in which they should be tried.

If identical weights are returned by the application, the DCM will use an internal algorithm to determine the order.

### 17.10.6 DCM\_autodim\_dir\_weight - Return directed dimension weight

double DCM\_autodim\_dir\_weight(

DCM\_directed\_type type,  // Dimension type

double value,     // Dimension value

void\* ag1, void\* ag2,    // Application pointers

double dir\[2\], void\* gl,     // Dir vector and line

double hpt1\[2\], double hpt2\[2\], // Help points

double hpar1, double hpar2 );  // Help parameters

Called by the function autodimension with information about a directed dimension. 
In addition to the information given to DCM\_autodim\_weight this function is also given either a vector direction or a geometry. 
Also, the argument type is not a dimension type but is one of the following:

- DCM\_FIXED\_DIRECTION \- Direction of dimension
- DCM\_PERPENDICULAR\_TO\_LINE \- Dimensions measured perpendicular to line
- DCM\_PARALLEL\_TO\_LINE \- Dimension measured parallel to line.

### 17.10.7 DCM\_automatic\_dimension - Output dimension

void DCM\_automatic\_dimension(

DCM\_d\_type type, double value, // Dimension type, value

void\* gn1, void\* gn2,   // g\_node pointers

void\* ag1, void\* ag2,    // Application pointers

double hpt1\[2\], double hpt2\[2\], // Help points

double hpar1, double hpar2 );  // Help parameters

This function is called as a result of calling autodimension. 
It informs the application of the next dimension to apply to the model, taking into account any weights that have been specified by the application.

The function is passed the type of the dimension, its value, the g\_nodes and application pointers of the geometry or geometries and any help points or help parameters. 
This is sufficient information for the application to create the dimension. 
Note that help points are created for all dimensions to circles and ellipses.

If the application wishes to use this dimension, it should create any necessary data and then call the function add\_d (add\_r for radii). It can then return from the Frustum function. 
Provided that the dimension has been added exactly as specified, the DCM will continue to autodimension the model with this dimension in place. 
If the dimension added to the DCM is not exactly the same, the functions add\_d or add\_r will return a null pointer.

If it wishes, an application can choose not to add the dimension to the model. 
The DCM will still continue with autodimensioning, but without this dimension.

### 17.10.8 DCM\_automatic\_dir\_dimension - Output directed dimension

void DCM\_automatic\_dir\_dimension(

DCM\_directed\_type type,   // Dimension type

double value,     // Dimension value

void\* gn1, void\* gn2,    // g\_node pointers

void\* ag1, void\* ag2,    // Application pointers

double dir\[2\],     // Fixed direction vector

void\* gnl, void\* agl,    // Line g\_node and app. 
pointer

double hpt1\[2\], double hpt2\[2\], // Help points

double hpar1, double hpar2 );  // Help parameters

This function is called as a result of calling autodimension. 
It informs the application of the next directed dimension to add. 
See DCM\_automatic\_dimension for further details.

This function is also passed information relevant to creating a directed distance dimension.

### 17.10.9 DCM\_deduced\_class - Output equivalence classes

void DCM\_deduced\_class( DCM\_d\_type type, int n\_gn, void\*\* gn\_array,

        void\*\* ag\_array );

Called by the DCM as a result of the application calling the function deduce\_constraints. 
This function informs the application of an equivalence class. 
An example of an equivalence class is a parallel equivalence class containing a number of lines that are parallel to each other (within the current tolerances). See section [13.1.1 Equivalence classes](13.1._13.1._13.1._13.1._Autoconstraining.md)

The function passes a dimension type, which will be DCM\_IDENTICAL, DCM\_PARALLEL, DCM\_CONCENTRIC, DCM\_EQUAL\_RADIUS or DCM\_EQUAL\_DISTANCE. 
It also passes the g\_nodes and application geometry nodes for all of the geometries in the equivalence class. 
These are passed in two arrays, together with an integer that gives the length of both arrays.

### 17.10.10 DCM\_deduced\_constraint - Output specific constraints

void DCM\_deduced\_constraint(

DCM\_d\_type type,    // Dimension type

void\* gn1, void\* gn2, void\* gn3,  // g\_node pointers

void\* ag1, void\* ag2, void\* ag3,  // Application pointers

double hpt1\[2\], double hpt2 \[2\],  // Help points

double hpar1, double hpar2 );  // Help parameters

Called by the DCM as a result of the application calling the function deduce\_constraints. 
This function informs the application of specific constraints that are satisfied by the current location of the geometry.

The function is passed the type of constraint, the g\_nodes and application geometry nodes of the geometries, and (where necessary) information about help points and help parameters. 
Three geometries are required for a symmetry constraint, and the third one is the symmetry axis.

If required the application can add the constraints to the model by calling the function add\_d from within the Frustum when the function DCM\_deduced\_constraint is called. 
However, no other DCM functions can be called.

### 17.10.11 DCM\_deduced\_constraint4 - Output equal distance constraint

void DCM\_deduced\_constraint4(

DCM\_d\_type type,    // Dimension type

void\* gn1, void\* gn2,

void\* gn3, void\* gn4,    // g\_node pointers

void\* ag1, void\* ag2,

void\* ag3, void\* ag4 );   // Application pointers

This function is similar to the function DCM\_deduced\_constraint. 
It is called by the DCM to inform the application of equal distance constraints that have been found by a call to the function deduce\_constraints.

