## 17.12 Miscellaneous functions

This section deals with miscellaneous Frustum functions. 
These functions relate to various areas:

- Control of solution for well-defined models - DCM\_resolve\_zero\_diamond.
- Control of solution for under-defined models – DCM\_g\_transform\_bias, DCM\_v\_transform\_bias, DCM\_scaling\_centre.
- Debugging integrations – DCM\_debug\_message.
- Evaluation – DCM\_license\_frustum, DCM\_license\_message.
- Others – DCM\_abort\_dcm, DCM\_erased\_node.

### 17.12.1 DCM\_resolve\_zero\_diamond - Set zero diamond behaviour

DCM\_diamond\_type DCM\_resolve\_zero\_diamond(

void\* al1, void\* al2,    // application lines

void\* apt1, void\* apt2,   // application points

DCM\_diamond\_type deduced ); // default behaviour

Called with application pointers to two lines, two points, and an indicator of the default behaviour of the DCM. 
The default behaviour is given in the argument deduced, and will be either DCM\_ZD\_LINES or DCM\_ZD\_POINTS. 
The function returns whether the zero diamond (see section [2.6.4 Zero diamonds](2.6._Ambiguous_models.md)
The default behaviour can be obtained by returning either DCM\_ZD\_DEFAULT or the value of deduced argument.

The returned value is one of the following:

- DCM\_ZD\_DEFAULT  \- allow the DCM to use its default behaviour
- DCM\_ZD\_LINES   \- make the lines coincident
- DCM\_ZD\_POINTS   \- make the points coincident

### 17.12.2 DCM\_scaling\_centre – Solution control for scalable sets, splines and conics

DCM\_scaling\_centre\_return DCM\_scaling\_centre(void\* ag, void\*\* gn);

Called with an application pointer to a scalable set, uni-scalable set, scalable spline, uni-scalable spline, bi-scalable spline or scalable conic. 
The function returns the preferred scaling centre as a pointer to a DCM\_point g\_node in the gn argument.

The application returns one of the following return values:

- DCM\_SCALING\_CENTRE\_SPECIFIED – The preferred scaling centre is a DCM\_point g\_node specified in gn.
- DCM\_SCALING\_CENTRE\_DEFAULT – The DCM should use its default scaling centre. 
The application should set gn = NULL.
- DCM\_SCALING\_CENTRE\_ORIGIN – The preferred scaling centre is the origin (0, 0). The application should set gn = NULL.

If the application requires scaling behaviour for this particular set to be as for previous 2D DCM, it should set gn = NULL and return DCM\_SCALING\_CENTRE\_ORIGIN.

If the value of gn is set to that of a DCM g\_node which is not of type DCM\_point, or which is not in the scalable set ag, then the DCM will use the default.

The default scaling centre is determined internally by the DCM. 
The DCM will prefer to scale an under-defined set about any DCM\_POINT g\_nodes within the set. 
The following factors influence which point will be chosen:

- Whether a point is fixed, frozen or being dragged. 
If a point is fixed or frozen (or coincident to a fixed or frozen point) the set can only scale about this point, and a set with multiple fixed points cannot scale. 
Fixing points in sets can be used to force a scaling centre, but this reduces the freedoms on a model.
- Transform bias and soft reference settings in the model. 
Using transform bias is a method for influencing under-defined behaviour generally and therefore it will have an effect in solving of scalable sets.
- The DCM’s internal algorithms for solving under-defined geometry, which are influenced by solving mode, geometry types and position. 
The order in which the model is constructed is not a factor in determining the solving behaviour.
- The default implementation of this function is to request scaling around the default centre computed by the DCM.

When defining an interpolated spline curve using interpolation vectors with rigidity set to DCM\_BS\_RIGIDITY\_SCALABLE, DCM\_BS\_RIGIDITY\_UNI\_SCALABLE, or DCM\_BS\_RIGIDITY\_BI\_SCALABLE, no g\_nodes will be associated with the spline curve data. 
In this case it is not possible to specify the scaling centre. 
For a spline curve defined in this way the application should always return DCM\_SCALING\_CENTRE\_DEFAULT and the default scaling centre will be used by the DCM. 
The same applies for scalable conics.

Note that in previous versions of the DCM the behaviour was always to prefer a scaling about the origin. 
Applications can use the DCM\_option function to revert to this functionality without implementing this frustum function. 
For more details, see section [16.2.5.4 Deduce\_constraints returns maximum or minimum constraints](16.2._Configure_global_DCM_behaviour.md)

### 17.12.3 DCM\_g\_transform\_bias – Solution control for geometry

DCM\_transform\_bias DCM\_g\_transform\_bias( void\* ag, double\* weight );

This function allows the application to bias the selection of which under-defined geometry will be moved by the DCM during an evaluation.

The application can choose to specify for each g\_node whether it would prefer this geometry to change, or not to change, or if there is no preference. 
If a preference is expressed, the relative importance of the preference on each such g\_node is determined by the positive number specified in weight. 
The function should return one of:

- DCM\_TRANSFORM\_BIAS\_NONE – No bias, use standard solving order.
- DCM\_TRANSFORM\_BIAS\_CHANGE – Bias the geometry to be changed.
- DCM\_TRANSFORM\_BIAS\_DONT\_CHANGE – Bias the geometry to be unchanged.

The default is DCM\_TRANSFORM\_BIAS\_NONE. 
The function is only called for a full evaluation – all subsequent incremental solves use the same bias values.

### 17.12.4 DCM\_v\_transform\_bias – Solution control for variables

DCM\_transform\_bias DCM\_v\_transform\_bias( void\* av, double\* weight );

Set the transform bias for a v\_node. 
Called during a full evaluation only, this allows the application to specify weight, a positive bias value for the variable, along with a type, in order to influence the under-defined solution. 
See the g\_node function ( [17.12.3 DCM\_g\_transform\_bias – Solution control for geometry](#_Ref428532324)) for full details of the arguments.

### 17.12.5 DCM\_integration\_debug\_message – Output a debug message

void DCM\_integration\_debug\_message(void\* app\_ptr, DCM\_debug\_message\_type type,

      const char\* message,

      const char\* details );

Identifies a problem with the integration of the 2D DCM. 
This function is aimed at developers working with the DCM to identify problems when adding new 2D DCM features. 
The information returned is not intended for end-users of DCM-enabled applications.

Passes app\_ptr – the application pointer of the 2D DCM instance calling this function and two strings, message and details, providing information about an unexpected use of 2D DCM.

The type return will be one of:

- DCM\_DEBUG\_MESSAGE\_UNREGISTERED\_FRUSTUM\_FUNCTION \- Indicates that DCM has used the internal default behaviour where a Frustum function was not registered. 
This function is called with this type whenever an unregistered function is used.
- DCM\_DEBUG\_MESSAGE\_HIDDEN\_FUNCTION – Indicates that the application has registered two functions that are mutually exclusive. 
This will be because one of the functions is deprecated and has been replaced by another. 
The deprecated function will never be called by DCM. 
This type will be passed back only from a call to register\_frustum\_functions or enquire\_frustum\_functions.
- DCM\_DEBUG\_MEASSAGE\_INVALID\_ARGUMENT – Indicates that the application has provided invalid argument for a function call. 
At present, this return value is used only for the case where the DCM constructor is given unsupported values for the linear resolution or the size (In which case DCM will also default to a value of 1e-8 for the linear resolution and 1e3 for the size).

This function will be used in future to output other messages from the DCM to the application and it is recommended that it is always registered.

### 17.12.6 DCM\_abort\_dcm – Enquires if operation should be halted

DCM\_logical DCM\_abort\_dcm(void\* app\_ptr);

Calls to this function are enabled by the application calling the DCM function set\_option specifying the DCM\_OPKEY\_ABORT option as ON. 
When enabled, this function is called periodically during potentially time-consuming operations (currently the functions evaluate, re\_evaluate, dynamic\_evaluate, move\_and\_evaluate, constraint\_balance, autoconstrain and autodimension). If the value returned to the DCM is DCM\_TRUE, the DCM will abort the operation and return as soon as possible.

The pointer app\_ptr is the application pointer for the DCM instance that is calling the function, as specified in the DCM constructor.

The maximum time duration between successive calls to this function should always be 10% or less of the time taken for the full DCM operation. 
For example in an evaluate operation that takes 1s to complete, the DCM will call the Function at least every 0.1s.

After aborting an evaluation in this way an application cannot evaluate the model incrementally until after a full evaluation. 
Also, the results of calling undo\_evaluation are unpredictable and so this function should not be called until after the model has been evaluated.

### 17.12.7 DCM\_license\_frustum – Output licensing messages

void DCM\_license\_frustum\_function (DCM\_logical lic, char\* message);

This Frustum function is only called from evaluation versions of the software. 
The function is registered using the function DCM2\_license and returns a text message (message) that gives warnings or errors from the licensing software, and can be used to obtain a valid authorisation code. 
It also returns a logical (lic) indicating if a valid license code has been found.

### 17.12.8 DCM\_license\_message – Output licensing messages

void DCM\_license\_message( char\* message, char\* ref\_string );

This Frustum function is only called from evaluation versions of the software. 
It returns a text message (message) that gives warnings or errors from the licensing software, and a reference string (ref\_string) that can be used to obtain a valid authorisation code.

Note that this function is not registered using register\_frustum\_functions but must always be provided for evaluation versions of the DCM static library. 
Also note that this function will not be called if a function has not been registered using the DCM2\_license function.

### 17.12.9 DCM\_erased\_node – Inform that a node has been erased

void DCM\_erased\_node( DCM\_node\_type type, void\* node\_ptr, void\* app\_ptr);

Called when the DCM is erasing a node. 
type is the type of node that has been erased and takes one of the following values:

- DCM\_G\_NODE
- DCM\_D\_NODE
- DCM\_R\_NODE
- DCM\_E\_NODE
- DCM\_V\_NODE
- DCM\_P\_NODE

node\_ptr is the pointer to the node being erased by the DCM. 
app\_ptr is the application-pointer given to the DCM when the node was created.

### 17.12.10 DCM\_run\_multiple\_tasks – Request application to schedule execution of tasks

DCM\_f\_outcome DCM\_run\_multiple\_tasks(void\* app\_ptr, const int n\_tasks, DCM\_task\_manager\* task\_manager);

This function is called when 2D DCM has detected some part of the calculation can benefit from multi-tasking. 
In this case, it will create a series of independent, discrete tasks, each representing a portion of the calculation and call this Frustum function. 
The application is expected to execute all the tasks, possibly in different threads, by calling the interface function run\_single\_task(). The tasks can be executed in any order and return one of the following:

- DCM\_F\_OUTCOME\_OK \- all tasks have been completed successfully
- DCM\_F\_OUTCOME\_ERROR \- one or more tasks did not complete successfully
- DCM\_F\_OUTCOME\_NOT\_IMPLEMENTED \- the tasks have not been executed by the application. 
DCM would then continue to run the tasks itself in a single thread. 
This may be used to just identify cases in which multi-threading would be potentially beneficial.
- DCM\_F\_OUTCOME\_NOT\_REGISTERED -  same as DCM\_F\_OUTCOME\_NOT\_IMPLEMENTED.

See section [15.3 Symmetric multiprocessing (SMP)](Symmetric multiprocessing.md)

### 17.12.11 Deprecated functions

DCM\_logical DCM\_abort();

Abort the DCM operation, superseded by DCM\_abort\_dcm.

void DCM\_debug\_message(DCM\_debug\_message\_type type,

      const char\* message,

      const char\* details );

Output a debug message, superseded by DCM\_integration\_debug\_message.

These functions have been replaced by new versions that allow an application context pointer to be passed back to the application. 
They are maintained to allow compatibility for existing applications.

It is recommended that applications using these functions migrate to the new versions noted above. 
If an application should register both the new and deprecated versions of a Frustum function, DCM will always call the newer version.

