## 17.2 Basic dimension functions

These Frustum functions are used to work with dimensions and constraints.

### 17.2.1 DCM\_dimension\_type - Return type of dimension

DCM\_d\_type DCM\_dimension\_type( void\* ad );

Called with an application dimension pointer and returns a dimension type. 
The supported dimension types are:

DCM\_DISTANCE

DCM\_ANGLE

DCM\_CONCENTRIC

DCM\_RADIUS

DCM\_PARALLEL

DCM\_PERPENDICULAR

DCM\_COINCIDENT

DCM\_TANGENT

DCM\_SYMMETRIC

DCM\_MAJOR\_RADIUS

DCM\_MINOR\_RADIUS

DCM\_EQUAL\_RADIUS

DCM\_EQUAL\_DISTANCE

DCM\_MIDPOINT

DCM\_DEPENDENCE

DCM\_PATTERNED

DCM\_EQUAL\_PARAMETER

DCM\_NORMAL

DCM\_EQUAL\_DIRECTION

DCM\_EQUAL\_CURVATURE

DCM\_EQUAL\_FIRST\_DERIVATIVE

DCM\_EQUAL\_SECOND\_DERIVATIVE

DCM\_SIMPLE\_DEPENDENCE

DCM\_CURVE\_LENGTH

DCM\_PATTERNED\_2D

DCM\_PATTERN\_VALUE

DCM\_PATTERN\_2D\_VALUE\_1

DCM\_PATTERN\_2D\_VALUE\_2

DCM\_EQUAL\_RELATIVE\_TRANSFORM

DCM\_ARC\_LENGTH

DCM\_LOCK\_WHOLE

DCM\_LOCK\_CENTRE

DCM\_LOCK\_DIRECTION

DCM\_CONIC\_RHO

DCM\_EQUAL\_CURVATURE\_DERIVATIVE

Note that DCM\_IDENTICAL is not supported for this function (use DCM\_COINCIDENT).

### 17.2.2 DCM\_dimension\_value - Return value of dimension

double DCM\_dimension\_value( void\* ad );

Called with an application pointer to a dimension and returns the value of the dimension. 
Distance dimension values cannot be negative. 
Circle radii may be zero but ellipse radii must be greater than the linear resolution. 
Angle dimension values can take any value (provided that the computer can compute their sin and cos accurately).

### 17.2.3 DCM\_dimension\_point - Return the help point for a dimension

DCM\_logical DCM\_dimension\_point( double hpt\[2\], void\* ad, void\* ag );

Called with an application pointer to a dimension and an application pointer to a circle or an ellipse. 
It returns the location of the dimension help point on the circle or ellipse and DCM\_TRUE. 
If the dimension should measure the minimum distance, the function should return DCM\_FALSE

This function is always called for any distance, coincident or tangent dimension to an ellipse or circle and is first called when the dimension or constraint is added using the add\_d function. 
If the application returns DCM\_FALSE, this function is never called again for the same dimension and geometry nodes. 
If the function returns DCM\_TRUE, this function will called again for the same dimension and geometry during an evaluation and the application must then always return a help point (the return value is ignored). The effect is that once a dimension has been added with a help point it will always have a help point and if added without a help point it can never have a help point. 
The only way of changing this is by deleting and re-adding the dimension.

### 17.2.4 DCM\_dimension\_point\_update - Output dimension help point

void DCM\_dimension\_point\_update( double hpt\[2\], void\* ad, void\* ag );

Called with an application pointer to a dimension, an application pointer to a circle or an ellipse and the updated location of the dimension help point on the circle. 
This is only called if a help point was returned when DCM\_dimension\_point was called.

### 17.2.5 DCM\_dimension\_alignment - Return the parallel or perpendicular alignment

DCM\_alignment DCM\_dimension\_alignment(void\* ad);

Called with an application pointer to a dimension. 
This dimension is one of:

- Parallel constraint.
- Coincident constraint between two lines or two ellipses.
- Distance dimension between two lines.
- Perpendicular constraint.
- Pattern constraint between directed geometries in a linear 1D or 2D pattern.

This function will be called by DCM when a suitable distance dimension is added using the add\_d function, or at the start of an evaluation. 
The application may return an alignment as follows:

- DCM\_ALIGNMENT\_NOT\_SPECIFIED

The alignment has not been specified and the DCM will solve for the nearest alignment as measured at current geometry positions. 
This is the default behaviour if this Frustum function has not been implemented.
- DCM\_ALIGNMENT\_CURRENT

The DCM will measure and use the alignment the first time the constraint is solved and use this for all subsequent incremental evaluations.
- DCM\_ALIGNMENT\_ALIGN

This should only be returned for parallel, coincident or pattern constraints and specifies that the geometry directions should be solved aligned.
- DCM\_ALIGNMENT\_ANTI\_ALIGN

This should only be returned for parallel, coincident or pattern constraints and specifies that the geometry directions should be solved anti-aligned.
- DCM\_ALIGNMENT\_CLOCKWISE

This should only be returned for perpendicular constraints and specifies that the angle from the first to the second geometry direction should be 90˚ clockwise. 
This is equivalent to a DCM angle dimension of 270˚ because angle dimension values are always measured anti-clockwise. 
The first and second geometries refer to the order of the nodes when the constraint is added using the add\_d function..
- DCM\_ALIGNMENT\_ANTICLOCKWISE

This should only be returned for perpendicular constraints and specifies that the angle from the first to the second geometry direction should be 90˚ anti-clockwise (equivalent to a DCM angle dimension of 90˚). The first and second geometries refer to the order of the nodes when the constraint is added using the add\_d function.

Note that specifying an alignment can cause the model to become over-defined if the alignments are not applied consistently or if alignments conflict with other model properties (e.g. 
half space specified between pairs of lines).

The current release of 2D DCM has certain limitations on the use of parallel and perpendicular alignments:

- This function is not called for equal distances between lines. 
It is possible to add the implied parallel constraint as well to specify the alignment.
- This function is not called for symmetry constraints between direct geometries, where the geometries are not parallel or perpendicular. 
In this case DCM will continue to solve to the nearest symmetric solution.

### 17.2.6 DCM\_symmetry\_alignment – Return the symmetry alignment

DCM\_sym\_alignment DCM\_symmetry\_alignment (void\* ad);

Called for a symmetric constraint. 
ad is the application constraint object. 
The application should return one of the following values for the enum DCM\_sym\_alignment to specify the constraint alignment:

- DCM\_SYM\_ALIGNMENT\_NOT\_SPECIFIED \- the alignment has not been specified and the DCM will tend to solve for the nearest alignment as measured at current geometry positions, although this is not guaranteed. 
This is the default behaviour if the Frustum function has not been implemented and corresponds to the behaviour of older DCM versions.
- DCM\_SYM\_ALIGNMENT\_CURRENT – DCM must maintain the current geometry alignment when solving the symmetry constraint.
- DCM\_SYM\_ALIGNMENT\_ALIGN – DCM must solve the constraint so that the symmetry is aligned.
- DCM\_SYM\_ALIGNMENT\_ANTI\_ALIGN – DCM must solve the constraint so that symmetry is anti-aligned.

The alignment of a symmetry constraint cannot be changed during an incremental solve. 
The corresponding frustum function is not called if the DCM is performing an incremental evaluation. 
If an application intends to set the symmetry alignment it should call reset or any other function forcing a full evaluation, or ensure it uses a non-incremental solve (e.g. 
by using evaluate and not re\_evaluate).

### 17.2.7 DCM\_normal\_alignment – Return the normal alignment

DCM\_norm\_alignment DCM\_normal\_alignment (void\* ad, void\* ag1, void\* ag2);

Called for a normal constraint. 
ad is the pointer to the application normal constraint object, ag1 and ag2 are the pointers to the first and second application geometry objects in the constraint. 
The order is established when the constraint is added to DCM with add\_d.

The application should return one of the following values for the enum DCM\_norm\_alignment:

- DCM\_NORM\_ALIGNMENT\_CLOCKWISE – DCM must solve the constraint so that the direction or tangent vector of ag2 is obtained by rotating the direction or tangent vector of ag1 by 90o clockwise.
- DCM\_NORM\_ALIGNMENT\_ANTICLOCKWISE – DCM must solve the constraint so that the direction or tangent vector of ag2 is obtained by rotating the direction or tangent vector of ag2 by 90o anti-clockwise.
- DCM\_NORM\_ALIGNMENT\_CURRENT – DCM must maintain the current alignment of the two geometries to solve the normal constraint.
- DCM\_NORM\_ALIGNMENT\_FREE – no alignment specified by the application. 
DCM will typically solve for the nearest alignment as measured at current geometry positions, but this is not guaranteed. 
This is the default behaviour if the Frustum function has not been implemented and corresponds to the behaviour of older DCM versions.

The alignment of a normal constraint cannot be changed during an incremental solve. 
The corresponding Frustum function is not called if the DCM is performing an incremental evaluation. 
If an application intends to set the normal alignment it should call reset or any other function forcing a full evaluation, or ensure it uses a non-incremental solve (e.g. 
by using evaluate and not re\_evaluate).

### 17.2.8 DCM\_dimension\_half\_space – Return region of distance to a curve

void DCM\_dimension\_half\_space(

void\* ad, void\* ag1, void\* ag2,

DCM\_half\_space\* hs1, DCM\_half\_space\* hs2);

Called for a distance dimension to a curve with arguments as follows:

- ad – application pointer to identify a DCM dimension (d\_node)
- ag1 – application pointer to first constrained geometry
- ag2 – application pointer to second constrained geometry
- hs1 – return value for the half space with respect to ag1. Either pointer hs1 or hs2 may be set to NULL by DCM, if the corresponding geometry is of a type for which a half space is not supported. 
The application should check the values of hs1 and hs2 before trying to assign to them.
- hs2 – return value for the half space with respect to ag2. N.B. 
This pointer may be NULL, as noted in the description of hs1 above.

This function will be called by DCM when a suitable distance dimension is added using the add\_d function, or at the start of a full evaluate. 
The application may set the value to one of these options:

- DCM\_HALF\_SPACE\_NOT\_SPECIFIED – No half space is defined for the constraint
- DCM\_HALF\_SPACE\_LEFT – A positive value for the dimension means that the second geometry should lie on the left side of this geometry.
- DCM\_HALF\_SPACE\_RIGHT\- A positive value for the dimension means that the second geometry should lie on the right side of this geometry.
- The DCM will initialise the values hs1 and hs2 to DCM\_HALF\_SPACE\_NOT\_SPECIFIED so that if an application does not modify them the half space will not be set and the dimension will behave as a regular, non-signed, dimension.

The default implementation of this function, which is used if the application does not register the function, returns the equivalent of DCM\_HALF\_SPACE\_NOT\_SPECIFIED for both geometries.

Note that the DCM does not allow an application to change the half space for a dimension when it performs in incremental solve. 
The Frustum function is not called if the DCM is performing an incremental evaluation. 
If an application intends to set the half space it should call reset before evaluating the model, or ensure it uses a non-incremental solve (e.g. 
by using evaluate and not re\_evaluate).

The current release of 2D DCM has certain limitations on the use of signed distances:

- Signed distances are not supported between parametrics (including ellipses, or splines, offsets, etc.). That is, if both geometries constrained by a distance are of any of these types, the DCM will not call the Frustum to enquire a half space.



The exception to this is that half spaces will be enquired and can be set between offset curves and their root parametric, or other offset curves sharing the same root parametric (i.e. 
between members of the same offset tree). In those cases, DCM will allow either or both half spaces to be set; applications should avoid setting conflicting half spaces, which cannot be solved.
- Signed distances are not supported from a parametric, ellipse or spline to a line. 
For a distance between a line and one of these geometries, the DCM will set one of the half-space pointer values to NULL to prevent the application from setting a half space on the unsupported end. 
However, the application may set the half space with respect to the other geometry.
- Minimum distances to circles are not supported. 
This means that an application has to provide a help point if it intends to use this functionality. 
Note that the DCM will not call the frustum function for minimum distance distances so there is no way that an application can set the half space if it does not provide help points.

### 17.2.9 DCM\_equal\_distance\_half\_space – Return half spaces of equal distances

void DCM\_equal\_distance\_half\_space(void\* ad, void\* ag1, void\* ag2,

     DCM\_half\_space\* hs1, DCM\_half\_space\* hs2);

Called for an equal distance constraint with arguments as follows:

- ad – application pointer to identify a DCM equal distance constraint (d\_node).
- ag1, ag2 – application pointers to the pair of geometries constrained by one of the distance dimensions of the equal distance constraint.
- hs1, hs2 – return values for half spaces with respect to ag1 and ag2. Just like in DCM\_dimension\_half\_space, either pointer hs1 or hs2 may be set to NULL by DCM, if the corresponding geometry is of a type for which a half space is not supported. 
The application should check the values of hs1 and hs2 before trying to assign to them.

This function will be called twice by the DCM at the start of a full evaluate, once for each pair of geometries involved in the equal distance constraint. 
The application may set the value of hs1 and hs2 to DCM\_HALF\_SPACE\_NOT\_SPECIFIED, DCM\_HALF\_SPACE\_LEFT or DCM\_HALF\_SPACE\_RIGHT, exactly as when using DCM\_dimension\_half\_space.

### 17.2.10 DCM\_equal\_distance\_dimension\_point - Return help points of equal distances

logical DCM\_equal\_distance\_dimension\_point (

double hpt\[2\], void\* ad, void\* agthis, void\* agother );

Called with a pointer to an equal distance dimension, application pointers to a pair of geometries consisting of one circle, agthis, and one other geometry, agother, which may also be a circle. 
The application should return DCM\_TRUE and in hpt the position of the help point on the circle agthis, for the measurement to the second geometry, agother. 
Alternatively, for the case where agthis is a circle only, to use the minimum distance measurement the application can return DCM\_FALSE.

Help points defined for equal distance constraints are used in the same ways as help points defined for other constraints via the dimension\_point function.

### 17.2.11 DCM\_equal\_distance\_dimension\_point\_update – Return updated help points

DCM\_equal\_distance\_dimension\_point\_update(

    double hpt\[2\], void\* ad, void\* agthis, void\* agother );

Called with an application pointer to an equal distance dimension, application pointers to circles or ellipses and the updated location of the dimension help point on the first curve, agthis. 
Only called if DCM\_equal\_distance\_dimension\_point returned help points when the constraint was created.

### 17.2.12 DCM\_ellipse\_dimension\_parameter - Return ellipse help parameter

DCM\_ellipse\_parameter DCM\_ellipse\_dimension\_parameter

       (void\* ad, void\* ag, double\* t);

Called with an application pointer to a dimension (ad) and an application pointer to an ellipse (ag).

- DCM\_ELLIPSE\_PARAMETER\_PARAMETER – A help parameter has been returned.
- DCM\_ELLIPSE\_PARAMETER\_VECTOR – A help parameter has not been specified. 
The DCM will call the function DCM\_dimension\_point to enquire if there is a help point.

A help parameter must always be returned if the ellipse has curve extensions.

### 17.2.13 DCM\_directed\_distance - Return directed distance information

DCM\_directed\_type DCM\_directed\_distance( void\* ad, double dir\[2\], void\*\* gn );

Called with an application pointer to a dimension. 
If this is not a directed dimension it should return DCM\_NOT\_DIRECTED. 
If it is a directed distance, the function should return the directed type and information about the direction. 
This should be either an absolute vector direction in dir, or a pointer to a DCM geometry node.

The directed types are:

- DCM\_NOT\_DIRECTED \- Not a directed distance
- DCM\_FIXED\_DIRECTION \- Distance measured in a fixed direction
- DCM\_PERPENDICULAR\_TO\_LINE \- Direction perpendicular to a given line
- DCM\_PARALLEL\_TO\_LINE \- Direction parallel to a given line

### 17.2.14 DCM\_pattern\_multiplier - Return the pattern multiplier

int DCM\_pattern\_multiplier( void\* ad, void\* ag1, void\* ag2 );

Called with an application pointer to a dimension of type DCM\_PATTERNED, and an application pointer to two geometry nodes. 
Returns the multiplier for ag2 with respect to ag1 for the 1D pattern constraint ad. 
Note that the sign must be returned correctly, and should be negated if the order of the geometry nodes is reversed.

### 17.2.15 DCM\_pattern\_2d\_multipliers – Return 2D pattern multipliers

void DCM\_pattern\_2d\_multipliers (void\* ad, void\* ag1, void\* ag2,

        int\* m1, int\* m2);

Called with an application pointer, ad, to a dimension of type DCM\_PATTERNED\_2D, and an application pointer to two geometry nodes. 
Returns the multiplier for ag2 with respect to ag1 for the 2D pattern constraint ad. 
Multiplier m1 is in the direction of the first g\_node passed to the add\_pattern\_2d function when creating the pattern reference node of ad. 
m2 is in the direction of the second g\_node.

Note that the signs must be returned correctly, and should be negated if the order of the geometry nodes is reversed.

### 17.2.16 DCM\_pattern\_start\_value – Initial pattern value

DCM\_pattern\_start\_value\_return DCM\_pattern\_start\_value (double\* val, void\* ag);

Called with an application pointer ag to a pattern node. 
If DCM\_PATTERN\_START\_VALUE\_SPECIFIED is returned, the returned value val will be used to set the initial pattern value (see section [4.3.11.1 1D patterns](4.3._Logical_constraints.md)

When specified, the pattern start value is used by the model\_satisfied (and satisfied) functions when checking if the pattern constraints in the model agree with measured values. 
A pattern may therefore be not-satisfied, even if all the existing pattern constarints measure to the same value (modified by multipliers) if this value is not equal to the customer-supplied pattern start value.

### 17.2.17 DCM\_pattern\_2d\_start\_value – Initial pattern value

DCM\_pattern\_start\_value\_return DCM\_pattern\_2d\_start\_value (double\* val1, double\* val2, void\* ag);

Called with an application pointer ag to a pattern node. 
If DCM\_PATTERN\_START\_VALUE\_SPECIFIED is returned, the returned values val1 and val2 will be used to set the initial pattern value (see section [4.3.11.2 2D patterns](4.3._Logical_constraints.md)

### 17.2.18 DCM\_relative\_transform\_transform – Initial relative transform

DCM\_relative\_transform\_transform\_return DCM\_relative\_transform\_transform (double mat\[3\]\[3\], void\* ag);

Called with an application pointer, ag, to a relative transform nodeg\_node and a transform array mat. 
The transform requested is the "instance transform" – the transform that would move the geometry specified first in a relative transform constraint onto the geometry specified second in that constraint (where the relative transform node ag refers to the the third g\_node passed in add\_d when specifying these constraints). The transform must be a standard rigid transform (translation and rotation only) as used throughout DCM.

The application should return one of:

- DCM\_RELATIVE\_TRANSFORM\_SPECIFIED – Indicates a transform has been specified in mat which should be used as the starting value in any solving of the equal relative transform constraint.
- DCM\_RELATIVE\_TRANSFORM\_IDENTITY – Indicates the application has not specified a value in mat and that DCM should use its default behaviour.

This function is optional; the default behaviour when this is not implemented is to assume the transform is identity. 
It is recommended that applications implement this function and return the desired relative transform, where known.

Note that the value returned for this function should only have a significant effect where the geometry involved is under-defined, or in the case where the relative transform node is fixed.

### 17.2.19 DCM\_tangent\_alignment – Return alignment

DCM\_tan\_alignment DCM\_tangent\_alignment( void\* ad );

Called with an application pointer to tangent constraint (DCM\_TANGENT). The function returns whether the direction of the geometry tangents are aligned or anti-aligned or if the DCM should maintain the current alignment.

The returned value is one of the following:

- DCM\_TAN\_ALIGNMENT\_EQUAL  \- Align the directions.
- DCM\_TAN\_ALIGNMENT\_OPPOSITE  \- Anti-align the directions.
- DCM\_TAN\_ALIGNMENT\_CURRENT   \- Use the starting positions to determine alignment.
- DCM\_TAN\_ALIGNMENT\_FREE   \- Equivalent to previous DCM versions: The starting positions will establish the geometry. 
For analytic geometries this chirality is maintained through subsequent incremental evaluations but for parametric geometry the DCM is free to change the alignment.

Default behaviour: Equivalent to returning DCM\_TAN\_ALIGNMENT\_FREE. 
This ensures that the DCM will reproduce behaviour from previous versions. 
Application developers are encouraged to implement this function and use a specific alignment.

### 17.2.20 DCM\_dd\_alignment – Return alignment of a directed distance

DCM\_alignment DCM\_dd\_alignment( void\* ad );

Called with an application pointer to a parallel directed distance dimension: i.e. 
a d\_node of type DCM\_DISTANCE, for which the application has set the directed distance property to either DCM\_FIXED\_DIRECTION or DCM\_PARALLEL\_TO\_LINE.

The returned value is:

- DCM\_ALIGNMENT\_NOT\_SPECIFIED \- Alignment is not specified and the DCM will ignore the sign of the dimension value. 
The order of the two g\_nodes being dimensioned (gn1, gn2) is not important. 
The initial positions of the geometries will determine the solution.



When the aligned is not specified, it is possible to use change\_chirality to change alignment of the dimension. 
However, this method does not guarantee that the alternative solution will be available and negative values are not supported.
- DCM\_ALIGNMENT\_ALIGN – The distance is measured from the first g\_node (gn1) to the second g\_node (gn2) in the direction defined for the dimension.
- DCM\_ALIGNMENT\_ANTI\_ALIGN – The distance measured from the first g\_node (gn1) to the second g\_node (gn2) is negative in the direction defined for the dimension.

Default behaviour: Equivalent to returning DCM\_ALIGNMENT\_NOT\_SPECIFIED. 
This ensures that the DCM will reproduce behaviour from previous versions.

### 17.2.21 DCM\_equal\_derivative\_alignment – Return alignment

DCM\_ed\_alignment DCM\_equal\_derivative\_alignment( void\* ad );

Called with an application pointer to an equal curve property constraint (i.e. 
a dimension of type: DCM\_EQUAL\_DIRECTION, DCM\_EQUAL\_FIRST\_DERIVIATIVE,  DCM\_EQUAL\_SECOND\_DERIVATIVE, DCM\_EQUAL\_CURVATURE, or DCM\_EQUAL\_CURVATURE\_DERIVATIVE). For direction and derivatives, the function returns whether the direction of the vectors are aligned or anti-aligned or if the DCM should maintain the current alignment. 
For curvature, it determines whether the sign of the curvature is the same or different, and similarly for the curvature derivative. 
See section [4.3.14 Equal curve property constraints](4.3._Logical_constraints.md)

The returned value is one of the following:

- DCM\_ED\_ALIGNMENT\_EQUAL   \- Align the directions.
- DCM\_ED\_ALIGNMENT\_OPPOSITE  \- Anti-align the directions.
- DCM\_ED\_ALIGNMENT\_CURRENT   \- Use the starting positions to determine alignment.

Default behaviour: Equivalent to returning DCM\_ED\_ALIGNMENT\_CURRENT.

### 17.2.22 DCM\_dimension\_rigid - Return whether a distance is rigid

DCM\_d\_rigidity DCM\_dimension\_rigid( void\* ad );

Called with an application pointer to a distance, angle or radius dimension, or a 1D or 2D pattern value dimension, or an arc length or curve length dimension. 
Returns one of the following codes:

- DCM\_DIMENSION\_NON\_RIGID \- Dimension is non-rigid, i.e. 
this is a standard distance dimension which is expected to be solved for multiple different values in different calls.
- DCM\_DIMENSION\_RIGID \- Dimension is a rigid distance constraint, which will never (whilst it is declared rigid) be given a different value.

If a dimension is made rigid, then the DCM will solve the model as if this dimension will never change. 
This allows it to solve models where the distance cannot be varied independently of the rest of the model, as long as the model is consistent.

Note that the DCM will not call DCM\_dimension\_rigid during a call to the re\_evaluate function which does an incremental evaluation. 
Furthermore, it is not guaranteed to enquire the value of a rigid distance constraint during an incremental evaluation. 
If an application wishes to change the rigidity of a dimension or to change the value of a rigid distance, then a full evaluate is required. 
Therefore, the application must call the reset function before calling re\_evaluate or dynamic\_evaluate after changing the value of a rigid distance.

For rigid arc length and curve length dimensions, an option must be set for this frustum function to be called. 
See section [4.2 Rigid dimensions](4.2._Rigid_dimensions.md)

For customers building a variational parametric design, non-rigid distances usually expected, so that the values specified are guaranteed to be parameters that can be changed in subsequent solves.

When using a DCM evaluation to make a specific change to a model, however, rather than to assess status codes, it can be beneficial to define those distances that will be constant for this change as rigid. 
When using localised solving ( [2.5.6.3 Localised solving mode](2.5._Evaluating_the_model.md)

A suitable implementation (in pseudo-code) might therefore be:

DCM\_d\_rigidity DCM\_dimension\_rigid( void\* ad )

{

application\_operation\* op = ((application\_dim\_reference\*)ad)->get\_application\_operation();

// always use non-rigid for building sketch dimensions

if (op->type()==solving\_to\_add\_dimensions)

return DCM\_DIMENSION\_NON\_RIGID;

else if (op->type()==changing\_a\_dimension\_value \|\| op->type()==dragging)

{

if ((application\_dim\_reference\*)ad)->am\_i\_being\_changed())

return DCM\_DIMENSION\_NON\_RIGID;

else

return DCM\_DIMENSION\_RIGID;

}

// etc…

}

The above example assumes that designs will be generated so that all dimensions can be changed independently, but that whilst making changes, only specific values are flagged for change and the rest treated as constants. 
This would be appropriate for use with the DCM\_LOCLALISED\_SOLVE mode, but could be used more widely.

### 17.2.23 DCM\_winding\_angle\_start\_value – Enquire initial winding angle

DCM\_logical DCM\_winding\_angle\_start\_value (double\* val, void\* ad);

Called with an application pointer to an arc length dimension, ad, and a pointer to a double to set the value, val.

Allows the application to inform DCM of the intended winding angle value for the arc length dimension. 
It is recommended that applications implement this function and return a consistent angle that is close to the measured value for the starting positions of the arc and the intended number of times around the circle by which the arc is wound.

The application can set the desired winding angle in val, a signed angle in radians, measured anticlockwise from the first to the second point defining the d\_node. 
The function should return DCM\_TRUE if the winding angle has been specified for this arc length dimension or DCM\_FALSE if the DCM should use the default value.

This is an optional function. 
The default implementation will assume that the dimension value implies that the arc subtends and angle between 0 and 2π. This may lead to solve failures or large jumps if the value is actually more appropriate for an arc that wraps around the circle more than once, or wraps in a negative direction.

### 17.2.24 DCM\_winding\_angle\_new\_value – Return winding angle at solution

void DCM\_winding\_angle\_new\_value (double val, void\* ad);

Called with an application pointer to an arc length dimension, ad. 
Returns in val the new value of the winding angle after the DCM has solved the model. 
Winding angle is specified in radians and may be positive or negative. 
Its absolute value may be greater than 2π indicating that the arc consists of more than one complete circle.

If there is no change to the angle subtended by the arc during an evaluate, this function will not be called.

