## 17.3 Functions for outputting change information

These functions inform the application of changes to statuses and geometry positions. 
Following an evaluation, these functions will be called at most once for any entity that needs to change.

### 17.3.1 DCM\_transform - Changes geometry

void DCM\_transform( double mat\[3\]\[3\], void\* ag );

Called with an application pointer to a geometry and a transformation matrix. 
It requests the application to transform the geometry. 
Note that the DCM will only call DCM\_transform for the geometry that needs to be moved after an evaluation in order to satisfy the dimensions. 
There is no need for the application to check for an identity transformation which would result in no geometry movement.

Note however that the DCM may output transforms with values smaller than the resolution of the application, and if these are not applied then small mismatches between the DCM and the application may be propagated.

The transform output for most g\_nodes defines the incrementalchange in position to satisfy the constraint scheme. 
The exception to this is for relative transform nodes, added with add\_relative\_transform. 
For these g\_nodes, DCM will always call DCM\_transform with the full transform for the solved position of the geometry. 
If the relative transform node transform has not changed during the solve, the function is not called.

### 17.3.2 DCM\_set\_radius - Changes circle radius

void DCM\_set\_radius( double rad, void\* ag );

Called with an application pointer to a circle and a new radius value. 
It requests the application to change the radius to this value.

### 17.3.3 DCM\_set\_major\_radius - Changes ellipse major radius

void DCM\_set\_major\_radius( double maj, void\* ag );

Called with an application pointer to an ellipse and a new major radius value. 
It requests the application to change the radius to this value.

### 17.3.4 DCM\_set\_minor\_radius - Changes ellipse minor radius

void DCM\_set\_minor\_radius( double min, void\* ag );

Called with an application pointer to an ellipse and a new minor radius value. 
It requests the application to change the radius to this value.

### 17.3.5 DCM\_scale\_transform - Scale a scalable set

void DCM\_scale\_transform (double sc, void\* ag);

This function will only be called if the DCM changes the scale of a scalable set or uni-scalable set.

The transformation for all the geometries in the set and in the DCM will be output during an evaluation. 
The DCM will also continue to output a rigid transform for the set node

The application may use the scaling factor (sc) about the origin followed by the set transform to move any geometries in the set (but not added to the DCM). Note that the order in which these changes are applied is important.

This function will not be called for a spline curve with rigidity set to DCM\_BS\_RIGIDITY\_SCALABLE or DCM\_BS\_RIGIDITY\_UNI\_SCALABLE. 
There is currently no way to enquire the scale transform performed by the DCM on this type of spline curve.

### 17.3.6 DCM\_bi\_scale\_transform – Scale a bi-scalable set

void DCM\_bi\_scale\_transform (double sc1, double sc2, void\* ag);

This function will only be called if the DCM changes the scale of a bi-scalable set.

The transformation for all the geometries in the set and in the DCM will be output during an evaluation. 
The DCM will also continue to output a rigid transform for the set node, to take account of any non-scaling changes such as translation and rotation.

This function will not be called for a spline curve.

### 17.3.7 DCM\_circle\_just\_inverted - Inversion of a circle

void DCM\_circle\_just\_inverted(void\* ag);

Called when a circle has been inverted by the DCM. 
This function will only be called if circle inversion has been enabled, either by the set\_option function or individually for the circle via the frustum function DCM\_circle\_allow\_inversion. 
If the DCM indicates that a circle has been inverted, the application may need to make changes to its internal representation, such as reversing the direction of the circle from clockwise to anti-clockwise or vice-versa.

Note that this function is called from any solving function (evaluate, dynamic\_evaluate, etc.) and the undo\_evaluation function.

### 17.3.8 DCM\_circle\_inverted – Absolute inversion of a circle

void DCM\_circle\_inverted ( void\* ag );

Called when a circle has been inverted by the DCM compared to its original chirality when the DCM performed a full evaluate. 
This function will only be called if circle inversion has been enabled, either by the set\_option function or individually for the circle via the frustum function DCM\_circle\_allow\_inversion. 
If the DCM indicates that a circle has been inverted, the application may need to make changes to its internal representation, such as reversing the direction of the circle from clockwise to anti-clockwise or vice-versa.

Note that this function is called from any solving function (evaluate, dynamic\_evaluate, etc.) and the undo\_evaluation function, if the end state of the circle is inverted compared to the initial position before the current full evaluate.

A typical sequence of calls might be:

- evaluate() – circle solves in measured original chirality

- No call to DCM\_circle\_inverted

- Modify a dimension value by a large amount
- evaluate() – circle solves into opposite chirality due to dimension change

- DCM\_circle\_inverted called for the circle
- DCM\_circle\_just\_inverted called for the circle
- Application should handle the "new" inversion.

- Modify the dimension value by a small amount
- evaluate() – circle solves in same approximate position as previous set

- DCM\_circle\_inverted called for the circle

- undo\_evaluation( UNDO\_TO\_PREVIOUS)

- DCM\_circle\_inverted called for the circle, still in the flipped position

- undo\_evaluation (UNDO\_TO\_INITIAL)

- No call to DCM\_circle\_inverted as solution back in original chirality.
- DCM\_circle\_just\_inverted called for the circle
- Application should handle the "new" inversion

Note that the decision about how to handle a change in inverted state will depend on the application’s particular implementation. 
It may be acceptable to ignore the state change.

### 17.3.9 DCM\_pattern\_value\_update – Output solved value of a 1D pattern

void DCM\_pattern\_value\_update (void\* ag, double v);

Called when a model containing a 1D pattern is solved. 
The pattern value will be either a distance (for a linear pattern) or an angle (rotational pattern). The value is always the absolute value rather than an incremental one.

### 17.3.10 DCM\_pattern\_2d\_value\_update – Output solved value of a 2D pattern

void DCM\_pattern\_2d\_value\_update (void\* ag, double v1, double v2);

Called when a model containing a 2D pattern is solved. 
The two pattern values are the distances corresponding to a multiplier of 1 in the directions of the geometry defining the pattern, in the order that the g\_nodes were passed to add\_pattern\_2d. 
The values are always the absolute value rather than incremental ones.

### 17.3.11 DCM\_g\_status - Output changed geometry status values

void DCM\_g\_status( DCM\_g\_status os, DCM\_g\_status ns, void\* ag );

Called if the status of a geometry node (see chapter [14\. Status Codes](14._Status_Codes.md)
It passes to the application the old and the new status and an application pointer to the geometry.

Note that this function is called immediately after a geometry is fixed or unfixed by a call to the fix function.

### 17.3.12 DCM\_new\_underdefined\_status - Output new geometry status

void DCM\_new\_underdefined\_status( int old\_status, int new\_status, void\* ag );

Called if the under-defined status of the geometry node is changed by a call to the DCM. 
It passes to the application the old and the new status and an application pointer to the geometry. 
For details of the status code, see the description of the DCM function [underdefined\_status](16.5._Enquiry_functions.md)

### 17.3.13 DCM\_d\_status - Output changed dimension status values

void DCM\_d\_status( DCM\_d\_status os, DCM\_d\_status ns, void\* ad );

Called if the status of a dimension node (see chapter [14\. Status Codes](14._Status_Codes.md)
It passes to the application the old and the new status and an application pointer to the dimension. 
This can be used to implement incremental facilities, such as incremental graphics. 
Note that this function is called for both d\_nodes and r\_nodes.

### 17.3.14 DCM\_d\_satisfied\_status – Output satisfied status of a dimension

voidDCM\_d\_satisfied\_status (DCM\_satisfied\_status status, void\* ad);

Called to output the satisfied status for a dimension during a call to model\_satisfied.

### 17.3.15 DCM\_r\_satisfied\_status – Output satisfied status of an internal dimension

void DCM\_r\_satisfied\_status (DCM\_satisfied\_status status, void\* ad);

Called to output the satisfied status for an internal dimension during a call to model\_satisfied.

