## 17.4 Functions for spline curves

These Frustum functions are only required if the application is adding spline geometry to the DCM, i.e. 
if add\_spline\_g is called.

### 17.4.1 DCM\_spline\_update – Allow update of spline properties

void DCM\_spline\_update(void\* ag, unsigned int m);

This function allows the application to change certain spline data during an evaluation. 
It is called with the application pointer to the spline (ag) and a mask (m) whose bits (in the DCM\_bs\_data\_mask) indicate which data can be changed. 
Attempts to change any other data will be ignored.

The application should call the function update\_spline or replace\_spline with the new spline data if necessary.

This function is used to implement the following spline behaviours:

- move\_and\_evaluate – Rigid or fixed splines only



DCM\_spline\_update will be called once during a move\_and\_evaluate function for rigid or fixed splines which have been included on the list of geometries which will change (with a DCM\_NULL transform).



The mask (m) will include all properties of the spline that can be changed. 
There are a limited set of properties that cannot be changed during move\_and\_evaluate, which are:



DCM\_BS\_RIGIDITY – The spline must remain rigid (or fixed) during the solve.



DCM\_BS\_INTERP\_STATUSES, DCM\_BS\_INTERP\_CON\_BAL, DCM\_BS\_INTERP\_D\_STATUSES – These fields are for output only.



To change the spline, the application should call one of the functions replace\_spline or update\_spline. 
If the changes being made are limited to modifications and additions to the initial spline mask provided in the add\_spline\_g call, then it is usually possible to use the update\_spline function to update particular properties. 
For more fundamental changes, which can include changes t the g\_nodes used to define a spline, changes from control- to interpolation point definition, spline solving mode, etc., the replace\_spline function must be used. 
See [16.6.6 replace\_spline - Modify the definition of a spline curve](16.6._Spline_functions.md)



Note that the function undo\_evaluation does not call DCM\_spline\_update in this context to reverse the changes made to a spline during move\_and\_evaluate. 
Applications are free to carry out such a change if required, however, by calling the update\_spline or replace\_spline function after undo\_evaluation completes.
- Re-parameterisation – Interpolation dependent splines only



DCM\_spline\_update will be called multiple times during a solve for interpolation dependent splines that have DCM\_BS\_PARAMETERISATION\_VARIABLE in their parameterisation field. 
The mask will be set to enquire the interp\_parameters array and the knot\_vector array if this was specified in the original call to add\_spline\_g. 
In order to recalculate the parameterisation, the application will need to query the current position of the interpolation points. 
The most convenient mechanism for this is via a call to enquire\_spline with the mask set to DCM\_BS\_INTERP\_VECTORS. 
A less efficient alternative method would be to call transform for each point. 
The application should only use this information to reparameterise the spline and should not update the positions of the points at this time, however.



The application must not change the start or end parameters of the spline.



The parameterisation of a fixed parameterisation (DCM\_BS\_PARAMETERISATION\_FIXED) spline cannot be changed. 
The parameterisation of a DCM\_BS\_PARAMETERISATION\_CHORD\_LENGTH spline shall be automatically updated by the DCM, without any calls to DCM\_spline\_update.
- Change of spline properties – Rational splines



DCM\_spline\_update will be called at the start of each evaluation to enquire the cp\_weights of rational splines. 
This gives the opportunity for the application to modify the weights of each control point by calling the DCM function update\_spline with new values. 
This function allows an application to implement dynamic changing of the weights by calling re\_evaluate repeatedly with new values. 
In Analyse, for example, this function is used to implement dragging of the control point weights.
- Change of spline properties - Interpolation conditions



DCM\_spline\_update will be called at the start of each evaluation to enquire the interp\_vector of splines with interpolation conditions. 
This gives the opportunity for the application to modify the interpolation conditions by calling the DCM function update\_spline with new condition values. 
An application can use this function to implement dynamic changing of interpolation conditions by repeatedly calling re\_evaluate with new values, e.g. 
as the user drags the cursor on screen.

For uni-scalable and bi-scalable spline curves, the application will not be allowed to modify the scaling direction specified in the DCM\_bs\_data structure during an evaluation.  The scaling centre will be enquired through a separate Frustum function (see [17.12.2 DCM\_scaling\_centre – Solution control for scalable sets, splines and conics](17.12._Miscellaneous_functions.md)

Note that DCM\_spline\_update is an optional function – if the application does not need to modify the values it does not need to register this function.

### 17.4.2 DCM\_spline\_changed - Output if spline changes

void DCM\_spline\_changed( void\* ag );

Called if the control points that define a spline move when the model is evaluated.

For a rigid transformation of a spline curve, this function is only called if the spline curve is a flexible, scalable, uni-scalable or bi-scalable spline. 
In this case, DCM\_transform will not be called for the spline g\_node itself. 
However, the DCM will output transforms on each control (or interpolation) point g\_nodes via the DCM\_transform function.

Note that this function will not be called for rigid splines. 
If a rigid spline is moved by the DCM, then the DCM\_transform function will be called for the spline g\_node instead of any control point or interpolation point g\_nodes.

### 17.4.3 DCM\_spline\_status - Inform of change in spline statuses

void DCM\_spline\_status(void\* ag);

This function is called if any of the interp\_d\_statuses have been changed by the DCM. 
The application needs to call the function enquire\_spline with the appropriate bit mask if it requires the new status codes.

