## 17.5 Frustum functions for evaluated parametrics

These functions will only be called if an evaluated parametric curve has been added to the DCM; i.e. 
the application has returned the type DCM\_PARAMETRIC from a call to DCM\_g\_identify.

### 17.5.1 DCM\_parametric\_limits - Return limits of parameter value

DCM\_logical DCM\_parametric\_limits( double\* t\_up, double\* t\_low, void\* ag );

Called with an application pointer to a parametric and returns either DCM\_TRUE and the upper (t\_up) and lower (t\_low) parameter limits, or DCM\_FALSE which indicates a periodic parametric curve. 
Note that t\_up must be greater than t\_low.

Note that customers using 2D DCM with PGM should set the values for t\_up and t\_low even in the case where the return value is DCM\_FALSE (where the curve is periodic), such that t\_up-t\_low = period (which will returned in the DCM\_parametric\_period enquiry that follows).

Note that it not possible to change the periodicity of a curve during an incremental evaluation, however the parametric limits can be changed during incremental evaluation if DCM\_TRUE is returned

### 17.5.2 DCM\_parametric\_period - Return period of a periodic parametric

double DCM\_parametric\_period( void\* ag );

This function is called if the application has not previously informed the DCM of the limits of a periodic parametric curve via the Frustum function DCM\_parametric\_limits. 
The period returned by the application must be greater than zero, and cannot be changed during an incremental evaluation

### 17.5.3 DCM\_parametric\_direction - Return parametric direction

void DCM\_parametric\_direction( double dir\[2\], void\* ag );

Called with an application pointer to a parametric curve and returns the direction of the curve as defined by the application.

### 17.5.4 DCM\_parametric\_evaluator - Return parametric data

void DCM\_parametric\_evaluator( double pt\[2\], double p1\[2\], double p2\[2\], void\* ag, double t );

Called with an application pointer to a parametric and a parameter t. 
Returns the co‑ordinates of the point (pt) and the first (p1) and second (p2) derivatives of the parametric with respect to the parameter. 
Note that the DCM may pass one or more of pt, p1 or p2 as DCM\_NULL pointers, in which case these particular values are not required. 
Hence, the application must test that the values of these pointers are not DCM\_NULL before filling in the requested information.

If parameter limits have been specified when the function DCM\_parametric\_limits was called, the value of t will never be outside these limits. 
If no limits were given, t may take any value and the application must be prepared to bring it into the parameter range of a periodic curve.

The application must return accurate values for the point (pt) and the first derivative (p1). The second derivative (p2) could be estimated by finite differences:

p2 ~= (p1(t+q) - p1(t)) / q

### 17.5.5 DCM\_parametric\_n\_discons - Return number of discontinuities

int DCM\_parametric\_n\_discons( void\* ag );

This function is called to request the number of internal discontinuities located within the application parametric ag. 
Returning zero will cause the DCM to solve without any knowledge of discontinuities.

### 17.5.6 DCM\_parametric\_discon\_data - Return discontinuity data

void DCM\_parametric\_discon\_data( double\* t, double pt\[2\], double p1\[2\],

    double p2\[2\], void\* ag,

     int dcon\_indx, DCM\_discontinuity\_side side);

If a non-zero value (N) is returned through DCM\_parametric\_n\_discons, the DCM will request information on the discontinuities through this function. 
A discontinuity will be uniquely identified by the application pointer to the parametric ag and by an index (dcon\_indx), numbered 1 … N in the order of ascending parameter value. 
The DCM will also specify whether the data in required for the upper or lower side of the discontinuity.

- DCM\_DS\_LOWER \- Data required for lower side of the discontinuity.
- DCM\_DS\_UPPER \- Data required for upper side of the discontinuity.

The application is required to return the parameter value on the given side of the specified discontinuity (t) and data for any non-null pointers at that parameter value: the point on the curve (pt), the first derivative (p1) and the second derivative (p2).

Note that the DCM may pass one or more of t, pt, p1 or p2 as DCM\_NULL pointers, in which case these particular values are not required. 
Hence, the application must test that the values of these pointers are not DCM\_NULL before filling in the requested information.

As with DCM\_parametric\_evaluator, an estimate can be given for the second derivative. 
If this is done, care should be taken that both derivatives used in the approximation are from the same side of the discontinuity.

Note that it is possible for an application to return different parameter values for the upper and lower sides of a single discontinuity (as long as tupper>tlower) in order to define a "jump" in the parameterisation of a curve.

See section [9.3 Parametric curves with discontinuities](9.3._Parametric_curves_with_discontinuities.md)

This function will not be called if DCM\_parametric\_n\_discons returns zero.

### 17.5.7 DCM\_parametric\_regenerate - Update a parametric curve

void DCM\_parametric\_regenerate( void\* ag );

This function can be called in two circumstances.

Firstly, it is called during a call to the DCM function move\_and\_evaluate when the application has passed a DCM\_NULL transformation for a parametric curve. 
This tells the DCM that the application wants to change the shape of the parametric curve. 
The application pointer of the parametric curve is given, and the application should update the definition of the curve.

Secondly, it is called whenever the DCM is solving a model that has one or more dependence constraints. 
It is called to request that the application should update the parametric curve from its dependencies.

In both cases the parametric may depend upon other geometries that the DCM has already moved internally, but the changes to these geometries will not yet have been output through the Frustum. 
The application should call the DCM function transform to find the changes that have been made to the geometries by the DCM. 
Note: the application should use these transforms to adjust the evaluators, even if the change is very small. 
If ag depends on a parametric which also depends on other geometries the application should get all dependee geometries before regenerating ag.

However, the application should not update the geometries until the DCM calls the Frustum function DCM\_transform.

As well as changing the shape and position of the curve the application can also change the parameter limits of the curve, and the values of any help parameters of any dimensions to the curve.

Note that the function DCM\_parametric\_regenerate may be called several times during the course of a single evaluation. 
On each occasion the application will need to request the current transformation of the geometries that define the parametric. 
These transforms are relative to the original position of the geometries.

### 17.5.8 DCM\_parametric\_undo\_regenerate

logical DCM\_parametric\_undo\_regenerate( void\* ag );

This function is required for any application that will use the move\_and\_evaluate function with dependent parametric geometry.

To implement this Frustum function, the application should reset its evaluators for the parametric curve so that they return the initial value. 
This function will be called during the move and evaluate process. 
It may be called multiple times. 
It may be called before any call to the DCM\_parametric\_regenerate Frustum function on the same geometry.

The application must either:

- Restore the indicated geometry to its position at the start of the evaluation and return DCM\_TRUE, or
- Leave the indicated geometry unchanged and return DCM\_FALSE.

For each geometry, the application must always reset or never reset in DCM\_parametric\_undo\_regenerate. 
However, it is permitted to reset some geometries but not others.

If the application returns DCM\_FALSE, or if the function is not registered, then the DCM will use still attempt to solve the model, but it is possible that the model may fail to solve, resulting in NOT\_CONSISTENT statuses. 
This is the behaviour that would have occurred in previous versions of the DCM. 
A consequence of implementing this function is that DCM\_parametric\_regenerate will be called more frequently than previously.

