## 17.6 Frustum functions for evaluated parametrics and splines

These functions will only be called if an evaluated parametric or a spline curve has been added to the DCM.

### 17.6.1 DCM\_parametric\_extension\_data – Define an extension to a curve

DCM\_para\_ext DCM\_parametric\_extension\_data ( DCM\_para\_ext\_type\* type,

DCM\_para\_ext\_start\_type\* start\_type,

    DCM\_para\_ext\_end\_type\* end\_type,

void\* ag,  DCM\_para\_ext\_end end);

Called with a pointer to a parametric curve ag and a value to identify the end of the curve for which data is being enquired: DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_END\_MIN or DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_END\_MAX.

To specify an extension at the given end of the curve, the application should return DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_EXTENDED from the function. 
If no extension is required at the given end, the application should return DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_NONE.

The extension type (type argument) should be one of:

- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_TYPE\_LINEAR – Curve extension is linear. 
The DCM will generate the extension as a line tangent to the parametric curve.
- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_TYPE\_BS\_POLYNOMIAL – Spline curve extension using the existing polynomial curve definition. 
This option is only available for bounded non-periodic spline curves.
- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_TYPE\_CUSTOM – Curve extension is an evaluated parametric defined by the application.

The application must specify how the start and end parameters of the curve are defined. 
The start parameter (start\_type argument), which is the parameter where the extension joins the curve (regardless of which end of the curve the extension lies) can have a type of:

- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_START\_TYPE\_END – Indicates that the extension begins at the end of the defined parameter range of the curve (whether upper or lower).
- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_START\_TYPE\_FIXED – The extension begins from an application defined position within the original parameterisation of the curve. 
The application will not change the parameter value during an evaluation. 
The end parameter value may be changed if the application calls update\_extensions.
- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_START\_TYPE\_VARIABLE – The extension begins from an application defined position within the original parameterisation of the curve. 
In this case, the application may change the parameter value during an evaluation.

The end parameter (end\_type argument) can be one of:

- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_END\_TYPE\_FIXED – The application will not change the parameter value during an evaluation. 
The end parameter value may be changed if the application calls update\_extensions, however.
- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_END\_TYPE\_VARIABLE – Indicates that the application may change the parameter value during an evaluation, effectively changing the length of the extension.

See section [7.5 Curve extensions](7.5._Curve_extensions.md)

### 17.6.2 DCM\_parametric\_extension\_parameters – Define extension range

void DCM\_parametric\_extension\_parameters (double\* p\_start, double\* p\_end,

      void\* ag,  DCM\_para\_ext\_end end);

Called with an application pointer to a parametric curve and a value to identify the end of the curve for which data is being enquired: DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_MIN or DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_END\_MAX. 
The function will only be called for a curve end for which DCM\_parametric\_extension\_data has returned DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_EXTENDED. 
The application should normally return the parameter values of both the start and end of the parametric extension.

The value p\_start identifies the parameter on the curve where the original curve joins with the extension and therefore it must have a value that is within the parameter range of the curve ag. 
If the end is DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_MIN then the value of p\_end will be lower than p\_start; if the end is DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_MAX, p\_end will be higher than p\_start.

Note that if DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_START\_TYPE\_VARIABLE or DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_END\_TYPE\_VARIABLE were specified in DCM\_parametric\_extension\_data, the function is called during an evaluation with NULL pointers for one of p\_start or p\_end.  In this case, it is only necessary for an application to specify the start or end parameter corresponding to the variable parameter(s).

### 17.6.3 DCM\_parametric\_extension\_evaluator – Return extension data

void DCM\_parametric\_extension\_evaluator (double pt\[2\],  double p1\[2\],

double  p2\[2\],  void\* ag, double t, DCM\_para\_ext\_end end);

Called with an application pointer to a parametric curve, a parameter value t and a value to identify the end of the curve for which data is being enquired: DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_END\_MIN or DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_END\_MAX. 
The application should return the curve data for the specified parameter. 
This function is used in exactly the same way as the DCM\_parametric\_evaluator function and the same rules apply for its use.

This function will only be called if the application has returned DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_TYPE\_CUSTOM for the type a parametric extension in DCM\_parametric\_extension\_data.

### 17.6.4 DCM\_dimension\_parameter - Return help parameter

double DCM\_dimension\_parameter( void\* ad, void\* ag );

Called with an application pointer to a parametric or ellipse and an application pointer to a dimension onto that geometry. 
Returns the parameter corresponding to the dimension help point on the geometry.

### 17.6.5 DCM\_dimension\_parameters - Return help parameters

void DCM\_dimension\_parameters( void\* ad, double t\[2\] );

Called with an application pointer to a single geometry constraint onto a parametric. 
Returns the parameters corresponding to the dimension help point on the parametric.

### 17.6.6 DCM\_dimension\_parameter\_update - Output help parameter

void DCM\_dimension\_parameter\_update( double hpar, void\* ad, void\* ag );

Called with an application pointer to a parametric (or ellipse), an application pointer to a dimension onto the parametric and the parameter corresponding to the dimension help point on the parametric.

### 17.6.7 DCM\_dimension\_parameters\_update - Output help parameters

void DCM\_dimension\_parameters\_update( void\* ad, double t\[2\]);

Called with an application pointer to a single geometry constraint onto a parametric and the new values of the two help parameters for this constraint.

### 17.6.8 DCM\_equal\_distance\_dimension\_parameter

DCM\_equal\_distance\_parameter DCM\_equal\_distance\_dimension\_parameter(

void\* ad, void\* agthis, void\* agother, double\* hpar);

Called by DCM to enquire the initial help parameter value hpar for one end of an equal distance pair, which acts on a parametric curve or an ellipse identified by the application pointer agthis, as measured to the other geometry in the pair agother. 
The return value can be one of:

- DCM\_ED\_PARAMETER\_PARAMETER – Indicates that the help parameter value is being set. 
Note: This is required for constraints to parametric curves (including splines and conics).
- DCM\_ED\_PARAMETER\_VECTOR – For ellipses and and offsets of ellipses only, a return of this value will indicate to DCM that the help parameter value is not being returned. 
DCM will then request the help point position using the Frustum function DCM\_equal\_distance\_dimension\_point instead.

If this value is returned for a parametric curve instead of an ellipse at any time, the behaviour of DCM is undefined. 
An invalid return during add\_d may result in DCM rejecting the constraint and returning NULL instead of a valid d\_node pointer.

Note, if an ellipse has curve extensions defined, then help points are not supported and a help parameter should be provided. 
Help points are also supported on an offset curve whose direct parent is an ellipse.

This function is required if applications add equal distance constraints between parametric geometry and any other geometry except their offset curves.

### 17.6.9 DCM\_equal\_distance\_dimension\_parameter\_update

void DCM\_equal\_distance\_dimension\_parameter\_update(

double hpar, void\* ad, void\* agthis, void\* agother);

Called by DCM to update the help parameter at one end of an equal distance pair after solving. 
The new help parameter value, hpar, is output for the geometry identified by application pointer agthis, as measured to the other geometry in the pair agother. 
The application pointer for the equal distance constraint is also passed in ad.

This function will be called for ellipses even when the application is using a help point on the ellipse – in this situation, the application may ignore the call if it updates the help point position via the DCM\_dimension\_point\_update function instead.

### 17.6.10 DCM\_p\_status - Output changed dimension status values

void DCM\_p\_status(g\_node\_status old\_status, g\_node\_status new\_status, void\* ap );

Called if the status of a p\_node (see chapter [14\. Status Codes](14._Status_Codes.md)
It passes to the application the old and the new status and an application pointer to the p\_node.

Note that it is possible to provide a NULL application pointer when creating a p\_node. 
In this case, an application should not register this Frustum function.

### 17.6.11 DCM\_p\_node\_discon\_side – Return side of a discontinuity

DCM\_pn\_discon\_side DCM\_p\_node\_discon\_side (void\* ap);

Called with the application pointer to a p\_node. 
The DCM has determined that the p\_node is at a discontinuity and is enquiring which side of the discontinuity it is intended to be. 
The side is one of:

- DCM\_PN\_UPPER \- p\_node is on the upper side
- DCM\_PN\_LOWER \- p\_node is on the lower side
- DCM\_PN\_DEFAULT \- p\_node side has not been specified.

If this function is not registered this is equivalent to returning DCM\_PN\_DEFAULT, i.e. 
the DCM will choose the side and solve the model as it did in older versions.

