## 17.7 Frustum functions for conics

These frustum functions are only called on conics.

### 17.7.1 DCM\_conic\_update – Allow update of conic properties

void DCM\_conic\_update(void\* ag, unsigned int m);

This function allows the application to change certain conic data during an evaluation. 
It is called with the application pointer to the conic (ag) and a mask (m) whose bits (in the DCM\_conic\_data\_mask) indicate which data can be changed. 
Attempts to change any other data will be ignored.

This function is used to implement the following conic behaviours:

- Change of bezier\_rho



The value of ρ can be changed on incremental evaluations via update\_conic when this function is called at the start of an evaluation.
- Change of shape



If the shape property of a conic has been defined to limit solving to a particular shape, then this property may be modified via update\_conic when this Frustum function is called.
- move\_and\_evaluate – Rigid or fixed conics only.



Note: This functionality is not supported in the current version of the DCM.



If a rigid or fixed conic is given a NULL transform as part of the inputs to move\_and\_evaluate then the DCM\_conic\_update will be called once for that curve. 
However, no attempt should be made to make a change to the curve via callbacks to the DCM interface. 
Use of move\_and\_evaluate with conic curves will result in undefined behaviour.

Note that this is an optional function – if the application does not need to modify the values it does not need to register this function.

### 17.7.2 DCM\_conic\_changed – Output if a conic changes

void DCM\_conic\_changed ( void\* ag );

Called if a conic changes position or shape when the model is evaluated. 
These changes may be:

- New rho value – To find the new value a call to conic\_data should be made.
- Changes to three defining points.

- If the conic is defined by cp\_g\_nodes, then the new values should be obtained via the transforms output on each of the point g\_nodes.
- If the conic is defined by cp\_vector, then the new values should be obtained via the conic\_data function.

Note that this function is called when a flexible or scalable conic is transformed rigidly, i.e. 
the DCM outputs the same transforms on all control point g\_nodes. 
Even in this case, the DCM will not output a transform on the conic g\_node itself.

This function will only be called for flexible and scalable conics. 
It will not be called for rigid conics. 
If a rigid conic is moved by the DCM, then the DCM\_transform function will be called for the conic g\_node instead of any control point g\_nodes.

