## 17.9 Frustum functions for variables and equations

These functions will only be called if variables or equations have been added to the DCM by calls to add\_v or add\_e.

### 17.9.1 DCM\_variable\_start\_value - Return variable start value

double DCM\_variable\_start\_value( void\* av );

This function is called with the application pointer to a simple variable, i.e. 
a variable not associated with any dimension. 
The application must return the initial value of the variable. 
This value is necessary to distinguish multiple roots that may occur in non-linear equations and also to give the variable a value in under-constrained situations.

For variables associated with a dimension, the DCM will use the measured value for the initial variable value and hence this function is not called.

### 17.9.2 DCM\_variable\_angle\_value - Return the value of an angle

DCM\_variable\_angle\_return DCM\_variable\_angle\_value(void\* av, double\* val);

This function is called with the application pointer to a variable angle. 
The application can return a new start value of the angle or inform the DCM to keep and use the current calculated or measured value.

The possible return values are as follows:

- DCM\_VARIABLE\_ANGLE\_KEEP – The DCM should keep the current value.
- DCM\_VARIABLE\_ANGLE\_VALUE – The angle value is returned in val.

### 17.9.3 DCM\_variable\_dist\_start\_sign - Return start sign of variable

Note that this function is not called for variables associated with signed distance dimensions, i.e. 
those dimensions for which a half space of left or right has been specified. 
It is recommended that signed distances are used to instead of specifying the start sign of a variable dimension.

DCM\_var\_dist\_sign DCM\_variable\_dist\_start\_sign( void\* av );

This function is called with the application pointer to a variable distance dimension. 
The application should return if the current chirality corresponds to a positive or negative value of the variable.

The possible return values are as follows:

- DCM\_VDIST\_POSITIVE – If the variable has a negative value, the DCM will change the chirality of the dimension when the model is evaluated.
- DCM\_VDIST\_NEGATIVE – The DCM will change the chirality of the dimension when the model is evaluated if the variable has a positive value.
- DCM\_VDIST\_KEEP – The DCM will obtain the start sign of the variable from the last value output through the Frustum. 
This will prevent the solution toggling on successive evaluations although there may be a chirality change on the first evaluation or after one or more equations have been edited.

Note that this function is only called during a full evaluation and that it is not called for variable radii dimensions.

### 17.9.4 DCM\_variable\_new\_value - Output variable value

void DCM\_variable\_new\_value( double val, void\* av );

The DCM outputs to the application a pointer that was passed to add\_v, and the new value for the corresponding variable. 
This function is not called if the value of the variable is unchanged. 
Note that the same information can be found by calling the DCM function value.

### 17.9.5 DCM\_equation\_type - Return type of equation

DCM\_e\_type DCM\_equation\_type( void\* ae );

Called with the application pointer to an equation. 
The function should return one of the possible equation types:

- DCM\_LINEAR\_EQUATION – Creates a linear equation (non-rigid)
- DCM\_NON\_LINEAR\_EQUATION – Creates a non-linear equation
- DCM\_INEQUALITY – Creates a linear inequality (deprecated)

In version 73, the DCM\_INEQUALITY type is considered deprecated. 
New integrators should not use this type, which will be replaced by the DCM\_RIGID\_LINEAR\_INEQUALITY type in future versions. 
Existing applciations using this type will continue to function as they do now, but customers should contact D-Cubed Components support for information on how to test the new inequalities system.
- DCM\_RIGID\_LINEAR\_EQUATION – Creates a rigid linear equation
- DCM\_RIGID\_LINEAR\_INEQUALITY - Create a rigid linear inequality (future use, not production ready)

In version 73, the experimental new linear inequality functionality is present, but is by default disabled using a run-time switch. 
That selects between the prior (DCM\_INEQUALITY) support and the new support with this type. 
Customers should contact D-Cubed Components support for the switch key to use with set\_option to enable this functionality for testing.

The choice of DCM\_LINEAR\_EQUATION and DCM\_RIGID\_LINEAR\_EQUATION determines whether the linear equation is created as a rigid equation. 
This choice will affect the subsequent Frustum function calls in the following way:

- DCM\_LINEAR\_EQUATION – When adding this type of equation to a model, the DCM will assume that the constant and coefficient terms are not fixed and may change during subsequent re\_evaluate calls. 
If the value of the constant term was not specified in add\_e, its value will be enquired through the DCM\_equation\_constant\_value Frustum function. 
If the value of a coefficient term was not specified in add\_v\_to\_e, its value will be enquired through the DCM\_equation\_coefficient\_value Frustum function.
- DCM\_RIGID\_LINEAR\_EQUATION – When adding this type of equation to a model, the DCM will assume that the constant and coefficient terms are fixed. 
The value of the constant term will be enquired through the DCM\_equation\_constant\_value Frustum function, since the value was not specified directly in add\_e. 
If the value of the coefficient terms were not specified in add\_v\_to\_e, their values will be enquired through the DCM\_equation\_coefficient\_value Frustum function. 
Note that the constant and coefficient terms may be enquired several times during an evaluation. 
The DCM will solve models which are over-constrained but consistent (due to redundant equations), without marking the model as over-defined.

### 17.9.6 DCM\_equation\_constant\_value - Return constant value

double DCM\_equation\_constant\_value( void\* ae );

The DCM passes the application the pointer that was passed to the DCM by a call to add\_e. 
The application returns the value of the constant term in a linear equation.

If a constant is passed to add\_e it is assumed that this will never change and this function is not called. 
For a rigid linear equation which was specified via DCM\_equation\_type, the value of the constant term will be enquired through this function during a full evaluation, since the value was not specified directly in add\_e. 
Therefore for rigid linear equations, the constant cannot be changed during incremental evaluation. 
For non-rigid linear equations, the value of the constant will be enquired during incremental evaluation and so can be changed.

In future, this function will also be called for an e\_node of DCM\_RIGID\_LINEAR\_INEQUALITY type.

### 17.9.7 DCM\_equation\_coefficient\_value - Return coefficient value

double DCM\_equation\_coefficient\_value( void\* ae, void\* av, void\* ac );

The DCM passes the application the pointers that were passed to the DCM by a call to add\_v\_to\_e. 
The application should return the value of the corresponding coefficient in the linear equation.

If a numeric coefficient value was passed to add\_v\_to\_e it is assumed that this will never change and this function is not called for the corresponding variable. 
For a rigid linear equation, this function will be called during a full evaluation, but not during an incremental evaluation, so the coefficient value should not be changed during an incremental evaluation. 
For a non-rigid linear equation, this function will be called during incremental evaluation as well.

Note that the information passed to the application contains redundancies. 
This is done to allow the application to implement its own data structures in alternative ways.

In future, this function will also be called for an e\_node of DCM\_RIGID\_LINEAR\_INEQUALITY type.

### 17.9.8 DCM\_equation\_residual - Return residual

DCM\_equation\_status DCM\_equation\_residual( void\* ae, double\* residual );

Called with the application pointer to a non-linear equation. 
The function should return the residual value of the equation in residual using the current values of the variables. 
The current value of each variable must be found using the DCM value function.

When this function is called for an equation that includes geometries, the application needs to find the current position of the geometries by calling the DCM interface function transform and applying any transformation or radius changes to the original position of the geometry. 
This is exactly the same technique as is used for the regeneration of dependent parametric curves.

If the residual cannot be calculated at the current values of the variables this should return DCM\_EQUATION\_FAIL otherwise it should return DCM\_EQUATION\_OK.

### 17.9.9 DCM\_equation\_derivative\_value - Return derivative

DCM\_equation\_status DCM\_equation\_derivative\_value( void\* ae, void\* av,

        void\* ac, double \*df );

The application should return the derivative (df) of the non-linear equation (ae) with respect to the specified variable (av). The current values of the variables must be found using the value function.

When this function is called for an equation that includes geometries, the application needs to find the current position of the geometries by calling the DCM interface function transform and applying any transformation or radius changes to the original position of the geometry. 
This is exactly the same technique as is used for the regeneration of dependent parametric curves. 
Note that the DCM will not call this function to enquire the derivative with respect to the geometries in the equation.

If the derivative information is not available or cannot be calculated at the current values of the variables, the function should return DCM\_EQUATION\_FAIL, otherwise it should return DCM\_EQUATION\_OK. 
Returning the derivative should help the DCM to solve the equations more efficiently.

### 17.9.10 DCM\_equation\_p\_node\_derivative\_value – Return derivative

DCM\_equation\_status DCM\_equation\_p\_node\_derivative\_value( void\* ae,

      void\* av, void\* ac, double \*df );

The application should return the derivative (df) of the non-linear equation (ae) with respect to the specified p\_node (ap). The current values of the p\_node must be found using the help\_parameter function. 
See DCM\_equation\_derivative\_value above.

### 17.9.11 DCM\_inequality\_minimum - Return minimum

DCM\_logical DCM\_inequality\_minimum( double\* min, void\* ae );

The DCM passes ae, a pointer to an equation of type DCM\_INEQUALITY. 
If the inequality has a minimum, the application should return DCM\_TRUE, and the value of the limit in the argument min. 
This value can be changed between full evaluations. 
If there is no minimum limit, the application should return DCM\_FALSE.

In future, this function will not be required for an e\_node of DCM\_RIGID\_LINEAR\_INEQUALITY type.

### 17.9.12 DCM\_inequality\_maximum - Return maximum

DCM\_logical DCM\_inequality\_maximum( double\* max, void\* ae );

The DCM passes ae, a pointer to an equation of type DCM\_INEQUALITY. 
If the inequality has a maximum, the application should return DCM\_TRUE, and the value of the limit in the argument max. 
This value can be changed between full evaluations. 
If there is no maximum limit, the application should return DCM\_FALSE.

In future, this function will not be required for an e\_node of DCM\_RIGID\_LINEAR\_INEQUALITY type.

### 17.9.13 DCM\_v\_status - Output changed variable status

void DCM\_v\_status( DCM\_g\_status os, DCM\_g\_status ns, void\* av );

Called if the status of a variable node (see chapter [14\. Status Codes](14._Status_Codes.md)
It passes to the application the old and the new status and an application pointer to the variable. 
This can be used to implement incremental facilities, such as incremental graphics.

The application can define a dummy function if it does not need to use this information.

### 17.9.14 DCM\_e\_status - Output changed equation status

void DCM\_e\_status( DCM\_d\_status os, DCM\_d\_status ns, void\* ad );

Called if the status of an equation node (see chapter [14\. Status Codes](14._Status_Codes.md)
It passes to the application the old and the new status and an application pointer to the equation. 
This can be used to implement incremental facilities, such as incremental graphics.

The application can define a dummy function if it does not need to use this information.

### 17.9.15 DCM\_e\_satisfied\_status – Output satisfied information

void DCM\_e\_satisfied\_status(DCM\_satisfied\_status status, void\* ae);

Called during model\_satisfied for a not-satisfied equation. 
It passes the application information about the satisfied status of the equation.

