## 2.1 Data types

The geometry types that the DCM uses are unbounded straight lines, circles, ellipses, points, splines and evaluated parametric curves (often referred to as free-form curves). All geometries are assumed to lie in two dimensions.

The types of dimensions with a value that can be given are distances, angles and radii. 
In addition, there are special types of dimension, which are represented by logical constraints (e.g. 
parallel). Both dimensions with a value and logical constraints are referred to collectively as dimensions throughout this manual. 
Clearly, not all types of dimension are valid between all types of geometry. 
Chapter [4\. Dimensions and Constraints](4._Dimensions_and_Constraints.md)

The DCM can also be used to solve equations to find the values of variables simultaneously with geometric solving. 
Variables can be used to represent the values of dimensions. 
Alternatively, some of the variables and equations may be solved independently of any geometry.

### 2.1.1 Geometries

The DCM supports the following types of geometries.

- Analytic geometries: points, lines, circles and ellipses.
- Splines.

A general NURBS curve is supported. 
Spline curves may be rigid, scalable, uni-scalable or flexible. 
Full details are in chapters [7\. Overview of parametric geometry](7._Overview_of_parametric_geometry.md)
- Conics.

A geometry type used to represent bounded regions of conic sections, with the ability to change between an ellipse, a hyperbola and a parabola. 
See chapter [10\. Conics](10._Conics.md)
- Evaluated parametric curves.

The definition of the curve is held by the application and is enquired as required by the DCM using evaluator functions. 
Full details are in chapter [7\. Overview of parametric geometry](7._Overview_of_parametric_geometry.md)
- Offset curves.

This geometry type is used to represent exact offsets of ellipses, splines and parametric curves. 
See chapter [11\. Offset and copy curves](11._Offset_and_copy_curves.md)
- Rigid sets.

A rigid set is a collection of geometry that is treated as though it were rigidly constrained, even though it may have few (if any) constraints or dimensions.
- Scalable sets.

These are similar to the rigid sets but their size can be changed; i.e. 
they have an extra degree of freedom, allowing all geometry scale iso-tropically, unless prevent by constraints.
- Uni-scalable sets.

These are similar to the scalable sets but their size will only change anisotropically in one specified direction, allowing the aspect ratio of the set to change.
- Bi-scalable sets

These are smilar to the uni-scalable sets but contained geometry may scale independently in two perpendicular directions, either of which may be constrained or not.
- Patterns.

A pattern is a collection of geometry that are constrained to be arranged in a regular array, which can be linear (1D or 2D) or rotational.
- Copy curves.

This geometry type is used to represent exact copies of ellipses, splines and parametric curves transformed rigidly from the original. 
See chapter [11\. Offset and copy curves](11._Offset_and_copy_curves.md)

Except where noted above, chapter [3\. Geometries](3._Geometries.md)

### 2.1.2 Dimensions and constraints

The DCM supports the following types of dimensions and constraints.

- Dimensions: Distance, angle, radius, arc length, curve length and pattern value.

These are constraints which have a value. 
For regular (non-rigid) dimensions, a DCM solve will indicate that this value represents a design parameter that may be changed independently of others in the system.
- Constraints: Parallel, perpendicular, coincident, concentric, tangent, symmetric, equal distance, midpoint, patterned, equal radius, equal parameter, equal relative transform, normal, equal 1st derivative, equal 2nd derivative and equal curvature.

Logical constraints have no associated value.
- Lock contraints: Lock whole, lock direction, lock centre.

These prevent the DCM moving geometry, either completely, or else limit changes to just part of the geometry definition.

Dimensions, excluding the arc and curve lengths, may be defined as rigid. 
When finding a solution, DCM will treat rigid dimensions as if they were logical constraints (e.g. 
perpendicular). Any number of such dimensions can solve if the model is consistent with those values, but there is no guarantee that a solution is possible if the values are changed. 
Dimensions are sometimes made rigid temporarily to help DCM localise changes when solving for specific inputs.

Equivalent constraints should be used whenever possible instead of dimensions with specific values, such as zero angle (parallel) or zero distance (coincident/tangent) to allow successful solving of redundant constraint schemes.

See chapter [4\. Dimensions and Constraints](4._Dimensions_and_Constraints.md)

### 2.1.3 Variables, equations and inequalities

The DCM can also solve equations and inequalities to find the values of variables.

The following variable types are supported:

- A variable associated with a dimension, where the value of the variable is used as the size of the dimension.
- A simple variable, i.e. 
a variable not associated with a dimension.

Variables of both types can be used in equations and inequalities. 
The following types of equations and inequalities can be solved by the DCM:

- Linear equations of the form:



a1\*v1 + a2\*v2 + a3\*v3 + ... + c = 0



where the coefficients a1, a2, a3, etc. 
and the value of c are numerical, and v1, v2, v3, etc. 
are the variables.
- Non-linear equations:



f(v1, v2, v3...) = 0



where the function f can be any function of the variables v1, v2, etc. 
The DCM is told which variables are in which equation, but it is not told explicitly how the variables are used. 
Instead, the DCM will enquire the value of the function and the derivatives at given values of the variables.



It is also possible to add geometry nodes to non-linear equations. 
So, in general the DCM is able to solve equations of the form:



f(v1, v2, … , g1, g2, …) = 0



where f is a non-linear equation of variables v1, v2, etc. 
and geometries g1, g2, etc. 
This facility can be used to represent advanced constraints and dimensions that are not supported directly by the DCM. 
For example, an application will be able to constrain the perimeter length or area of a profile, to constrain a point to lie at the centroid of a closed profile, etc.
- Inequalities:



min <= v1



v1 <= max



min <= v1 <= max

For full details see chapter [12\. Variables, Equations, Inequalities and Limits](12._Variables,_Equations,_Inequalities_and_Limits.md)

