## 2.2 Fixed, frozen and free geometries

When geometry is first created it is free. 
The DCM allows the application to make geometry fixed or frozen. 
The DCM will never move geometry that is fixed or frozen although it may be moved by the application. 
The differences between these types are:

- Free \- Geometry that is neither fixed nor frozen is referred to as free geometry. 
Free geometry can be moved by the DCM when the model is solved.
- Fixed \- Fixed geometry is not moved by the DCM. 
Application dimensions and constraints between only fixed geometry are ignored by the DCM and never influence the solution.



The DCM will find a solution that assumes fixed geometry will always remain in the same position. 
If the DCM has successfully solved a model and then fixed geometry is moved by the application, the DCM may not be able to solve the model again.
- Frozen \- Frozen geometry is not moved by the DCM. 
Application dimensions and constraints between frozen geometry are not solved by the DCM although in certain cases they may influence the solution found for other parts of the model.



The DCM does not assume that frozen geometry will always remain in the same position. 
Thus the application can move frozen geometry more easily because the results when it is solved with the DCM will be more predictable.

Frozen sets and frozen geometries that are in a set are treated in a special way.

See chapter [6\. Fixed, Frozen and Free Geometry](6._Fixed,_Frozen_and_Free_Geometry.md)

A geometry or a freedom of a geometry can also be prevented from moving by using a lock constraint. 
Unlike fixing, using a lock constraint will not override the solving statuses on the geometry or cause DCM to ignore constraints between to to the locked geometry. 
This means that applications can identify conflicts between lock constraints and other dimensions/constraints by examining statuses, whereas when using fixing, the constraints might be ignored as "between fixed".

More detailed information about this constraint can be found in section [4.3.15 Lock constraints](4.3._Logical_constraints.md)

