## 2.3 Degrees of freedom

A model is DCM consists of the geometries and variables, which have degrees of freedom which are then removed by the constraints and equations. 
The constraint balance is the equation which relates these. 
A zero constraint balance indicates that the geometry in a model is fully defined.

Constraint balance = degrees of freedom introduced by geometry and variables

\- degrees of freedom removed by constraints

\- rigid body freedoms of the system

The following sections cover the details of each of these terms.

A model with a zero constraint balance has a well-defined solution, given the starting positions of the geometry. 
Frequently therefore applications choose to aim for a zero constraint balance in order to ensure that the designs produced by the end user are unambiguous. 
A model defined with only non-rigid dimensions and logical constraints can be used as a parametric design, where any dimension value is a changeable parameter for the design, which will be solvable for a range of values to produce different variations on the design. 
This can be extended to include equations with suitable options.

In other use cases, applications will be working on extremely under-defined models, where the numbers of freedoms in a system are very high. 
In those cases, DCM offers many methods to influence the solving behaviour. 
Application integrators can choose different options to tailor their application behaviour in these cases.

### 2.3.1 Freedoms of geometry and variables

In general, any geometry or rigid set in two-dimensional Euclidean space has 3 degrees of freedom (2 translations and 1 rotation), minus the number of translation symmetries and rotational symmetries possessed by the geometry, plus any internal degrees of freedom. 
Hence:

degrees of freedom = 3 \- (translation + rotational symmetries) + internal freedoms

Using this equation, it can be shown that:

- Points and lines have 2 degrees of freedom.
- Circles have 3 degrees of freedom.
- Ellipses have 5 degrees of freedom.
- Parametric curves, which have no internal freedoms that the DCM can control, have 3 degrees of freedom.
- A set has a total of 3 degrees of freedom independent of how many geometries it contains.
- Scalable, bi- and uni-scalable sets derive their degrees of freedom from their contained geometries.
- The degrees of freedom of a spline are the total degrees of freedom of any geometries used to define the curve. 
So, if a spline is defined with n points it will have 2n degrees of freedom.
- A Conic curve has 7 freedoms.

Fixed and frozen geometry will never be moved by the DCM, and has no degrees of freedom. 
Locked geometry will have some or all of its freedoms removed by the lock constraints.

If all of the degrees of freedom of a geometry have been taken up by a consistent combination of dimensions and fixed geometry, that geometry is said to be well-defined. 
Geometry that still has some degrees of freedom is said to be under-defined.

A set can be fixed or frozen; this will take up all of its degrees of freedom. 
Individual geometries within a set can be fixed. 
If, for instance, a set contains a fixed line, the set will still have a single degree of freedom along the direction of the line. 
This degree of freedom can be removed by fixing other geometries within the set.

A variable (which can be either a variable dimension or a simple variable) has a single degree of freedom.

### 2.3.2 Freedoms removed by constraints and equations

In order for a collection of geometries to be fully specified all their degrees of freedom must be taken up by dimensions. 
Most dimensions take up one degree of freedom but there are some special cases. 
A distance dimension between two lines specifies both parallelism and a distance and therefore takes up two degrees of freedom. 
A coincident constraint between two points also takes up two degrees of freedom, as does a concentric constraint. 
Symmetric and coincident constraints take up two degrees of freedom for points and lines, three degrees of freedom for circles and five degrees of freedom for ellipses.

The DCM includes special treatment for over-specified logical constraints. 
This is important because logical constraints such as parallelism are likely to be over-specified when a design is being built up interactively. 
For example, if two lines are defined to be parallel and then a distance is subsequently given between them the parallelism is then specified twice. 
The way that the DCM handles these configurations is discussed later in section [2.7 Solving over-defined models](2.7._Solving_over-defined_models.md)

An equation will remove a single degree of freedom. 
An inequality can be either active or passive, depending upon if it is necessary to use it to bring the variable into its range. 
However, even when an inequality is active it does not reduce the number of degrees of freedom of the geometry.

### 2.3.3 Rigid body freedoms

It should be noted that when all geometry is precisely defined relative to free geometry there are still three degrees of freedom due to rigid body motions (translation in the plane and rotation). In order to be fully defined each connected set of geometries needs to be dimensioned to fixed geometry taking up at least three degrees of freedom. 
For this reason it may be desirable to have some fixed geometry in every model. 
It is not, however, necessary to work this way. 
The DCM can be used to specify geometry completely relatively.

### 2.3.4 Using the constraint balance

An application can use the DCM to discover the total number of degrees of freedom of the geometries and the variables, the number of degrees of freedom taken up by the dimensions and equations, and the number of rigid body degrees of freedom remaining. 
These numbers are referred to as the constraint balance and are found by calling the DCM function constraint\_balance. 
They can be used to show if there are sufficient dimensions present in the model to remove all of the degrees of freedom of the geometry.

Note that the constraint balance result may give a result that is conflicting with the individual statuses of geometry and variables in the DCM in some cases.

Constraint balance can report fewer freedoms in the model than expected when:

- Redundant / over-constrained models where certain equivalent constraints are not identified unless a full evaluate has been performed.



It is recommended that evaluate is called before constraint\_balance where an exact result is required. 
2D DCM will identify and handle the majority of overconstraining constraints in constraint\_balance even before an evaluate, but some cases require the full expense of the evaluate function.



Note that the dynamic\_evaluate function will not provide the necessary information for the fully accurate constraint\_balance function.
- Singular configurations where a dimension value, or multiple values, are involved. 
See section [2.6.3 Singular configurations and constraint balance](2.6._Ambiguous_models.md)



This case results in geometry that appears under-defined but cannot be fully defined because the right number of constraints have been applied already, but at conflicting dimension values. 
The solution in this case requires that the application removes some dimensions before adding a different constraint that will allow the geometry to be full defined.

Constraint balance can report more freedoms in the model than expected when:

- Singular dimension values are used e.g. 
zero distance between two points removes two freedoms when any other values removes one freedom. 
Since the constraint balance does not consider the values of dimensions it would not identify this special case.



This can lead to a model reporting that there should be freedoms left in the model but no v\_nodes or g\_nodes are under-defined. 
In this case, it is likely that a dimension could be replaced by an equivalent logical constraint, such as a coincident constraint in the example with a zero distance between two points.

