## 12.1 Variables

The following variable types are supported:

- A variable associated with a dimension. 
When the model has been solved the value of the variable will be set to measured dimension on the geometries.
- A simple variable, i.e. 
a variable not associated with a dimension.
- A geometry can be used directly as a variable in a non-linear equation.

Most dimensions with value can be changed into variable dimensions. 
Exceptions are documented in the add\_v function description (see section [16.4.1 add\_v - Creates a variable in the DCM](16.4._DCM_functions_for_managing_equations.md)
In order to remove this freedom, an equation can be used to constrain the variable value. 
A dimension that has a variable added can no longer be rigid. 
The variable may be added whether or not the dimension has been specified as rigid but the property will be overwritten. 
Further frustum calls will not be made to enquire rigidity once a variable is added.

Note that normally the position of geometries are found in order to satisfy dimensions and constraints. 
However, they may also be found in order to solve equations. 
See section [16.4.4 add\_g\_to\_e - Add a geometry to a non-linear equation](16.4._DCM_functions_for_managing_equations.md)

Variables should be in the range -1010®1010. Values outside these limits will not be solved by the DCM to avoid problems with machine accuracy.

DCM functions: add\_v, add\_v\_to\_e, value.

Frustum function: DCM\_variable\_new\_value.

### 12.1.1 Start value of variables

All variables must have a start value in order to distinguish multiple roots that can occur in non-linear equations and the solution if the model is under-defined. 
When solving non-linear equations, the DCM will use the initial values of the variables as a starting point for the solution.

The start value for variables associated with a dimension is the measured value of the dimension. 
For simple variables, the start value must be supplied by the application.

The DCM may not be able to find a solution if the derivatives of the equation cannot be found at the start values of the variables. 
For example, if the equation is xy - 1 = 0 and the start values for x and y are both zero, the DCM will not be able to find a solution. 
In order to allow the DCM to solve this equation at least one of the variables should have a non-zero start value.

Frustum function: [DCM\_variable\_start\_value](17.9._Frustum_functions_for_variables_and_equations.md)

### 12.1.2 Start value of variable angles

The DCM will measure and use the current value of an angle as the start value for a variable angle dimension. 
By default, the value of the measured angle will be in the range 0 - 2π. However, an application is given the opportunity to specify a different start value. 
An application may need to this if the value of the measured angle differs by multiples of 2π to the value actually required in an equation.

This may be used to implement gears with equations in 2D DCM. 
If the application calls undo\_evaluation between each drag step, the gear angle values may ‘jump’ at particular places since the current variable angle may have multiples of 2π added or subtracted from the initial values.

The application will typically remember the angle value at the end of an evaluation before calling undo\_evaluation. 
On the next evaluation, the stored angle value is returned when the Frustum function DCM\_variable\_angle\_value is called. 
Note that this function would be called at a full evaluation, and at any further full evaluation, but not at a incremental evaluation.

Frustum function: [DCM\_variable\_angle\_value](17.9._Frustum_functions_for_variables_and_equations.md)

### 12.1.3 Negative value variables

Specifying a negative value for a regular distance dimension when the Frustum function DCM\_dimension\_value is called has no effect on the solution - the DCM will simply use the absolute value, unless the dimension has been assigned a half space (see [4.1.2.5 Signed distances and directed distances](4.1._Dimensions_with_a_value.md)

For a variable dimension, however, it is possible to get a negative value for a distance dimension even when the dimension half space is not set. 
For example, a model might contain a variable dimension v1 whose value is given by an equation v1 + 10 = 0 which would result in a value for v1 of -10. This can lead to complications in the application and therefore it is highly recommended that signed distances are used with variable distance dimensions to specify clearly the meaning of the sign of the variable.

A variable dimension might change from positive to negative (or vice versa) during an evaluation. 
To allow the model to change smoothly the DCM will consider that a change of the sign of a variable dimension should represent a change in chirality of the model. 
Hence, if a point has a variable dimension to a line, and the value of the variable changes from +10 to -10, the expected result is that the point should move from one side of the line to the other.

If the application has not set the half space for a variable dimension, another mechanism is required to allow variable dimensions to start in the position equating to a negative variable value. 
Otherwise the dimension would jump side on each full evaluate. 
To prevent this, the Frustum function DCM\_variable\_dist\_start\_sign is called for each variable dimension at the beginning of each full evaluation. 
The application will return if the current chirality corresponds to a positive or negative value of the variable. 
This function is not called for signed distances as the sign can be determined from the half space in those cases. 
Similarly, the function is not required for variable pattern value dimensions, since these are always signed.

Note that this does not affect variable radius dimensions. 
If the value of a variable radius dimension is negative the DCM will not be able to solve the circle.

Frustum function: [DCM\_variable\_dist\_start\_sign](17.9._Frustum_functions_for_variables_and_equations.md)

