## 12.2 Equations

The DCM will solve equations simultaneously with dimensions and constraints to find the values of the variables. 
It can solve both linear and non-linear equations.

DCM functions: [add\_e](16.4._DCM_functions_for_managing_equations.md)

Frustum functions: [DCM\_equation\_type](17.9._Frustum_functions_for_variables_and_equations.md)

### 12.2.1 Linear equations

A linear equation can be written as:

a1\*v1 + a2\*v2 + a3\*v3 + ... + c = 0

where coefficients a1, a2, a3, etc. 
and the value of c are numerical and v1, v2, v3, etc. 
are the variables. 
To define a linear equation to the DCM it is necessary to tell it which variables are in the equation and the values of the coefficients and the constant.

Note that DCM does not allow a single linear equation to have variable dimensions that have different dimensionality. 
That is, you cannot mix a variable angle and a variable distance in the same linear equation. 
However, it is possible to overcome this restriction using a second linear equation to constrain a simple variable to be equal to the value of the angle (for example) and then using that to link the distance value.

Frustum functions: [DCM\_equation\_constant\_value](17.9._Frustum_functions_for_variables_and_equations.md)

### 12.2.2 Non-linear equations

A non-linear equation of variables can be written as:

f(v1, v2, v3...) = 0

where the function f can be any function of the variables v1, v2, etc. 
The DCM is told which variables are in which equation, but it is not told explicitly how they are used.

For a non-linear equation, the DCM will enquire the value of the function at given values of the variables. 
The value of the function is called the residual. 
Typically, non-linear equations need to be solved using an iterative procedure, and the DCM will ask for the residual several times. 
The value of the variables will be updated by the DCM as the iteration proceeds and must be enquired by calling the DCM function value. 
The application should compute the residual from the current variable values but should not update them permanently until requested by the DCM.

The application should ensure that the initial values of the variables are near enough to the desired solution for the DCM to be able to converge to the solution. 
This is especially true if there are values of the variables where a residual cannot be calculated, e.g., b=sqrt(a).

The DCM may also ask for the value of the derivative of the function with respect to a particular variable. 
If this information is available, it will help the DCM to find a solution faster. 
However, if it is not available the DCM will still be able to solve the model.

The DCM is able to solve non-linear equations with discontinuous values and derivatives.

Non-linear equations will solve much more reliably if they have linear order. 
For example, if a and b are variable distance dimensions it is preferable to solve the equation a=1000/b instead of a\*b=1000, since the dimension of both sides is length. 
This makes them comparable with other dimensions and equations that are being solved simultaneously.

Frustum functions: [DCM\_equation\_derivative\_value](17.9._Frustum_functions_for_variables_and_equations.md)

DCM function: [value](16.5._Enquiry_functions.md)

### 12.2.3 Non-linear equations with geometry and parameter nodes

A non-linear equation of variables, geometries and parameter nodes can be written as:

f(v1, v2, v3..., g1, g2, g3…, p1, p2, p3…) = 0

This informs the DCM that there is a function f that not only depends on the values of the variables v1, v2, etc but also the positions of the geometries g1, g2, etc and the values of the parameter nodes p1, p2, etc. 
In a similar way to variables, the DCM is told which geometries and/or p\_node values are in which equation, but it is not told explicitly how they are used.

The DCM will use an iterative method to solve this type of non-linear equation. 
When the value of the residual is requested the application will need to find it using the DCM's internal values of the variables, parameter nodes and geometry positions. 
The application must compute the DCM's internal geometry positions by enquiring the current transformation matrix by calling the DCM function transform. 
The current value of the parameter node can be obtained using the DCM function help\_parameter. 
The application should compute the residual from the current variable values, parameter node values and geometry positions but should not update them permanently until requested by the DCM.

Note that the DCM will not ask for the derivatives of a non-linear equation with respect to a geometry. 
However, it may ask for the derivative with respect to a parameter node value.

The following section describes more details about how this facility can be used in an application.

DCM functions: [add\_g\_to\_e](16.4._DCM_functions_for_managing_equations.md)

