## 12.3 Uses of geometry and p\_nodes in non-linear equations

Geometry and parameter nodes in non-linear equations can be used to represent advanced constraints and dimensions that are not supported directly by the DCM. 
For each case, the application will need to do the following:

- Create a non-linear equation in the DCM and add the appropriate geometries to it.
- Provide the residual of the function when requested by the DCM.

For example, an application is able to do the following:

- Constrain the perimeter length of an open or closed profile to have a given value. 
The value may be numeric, or may be a variable in an equation. 
This will allow the application to constrain the length of two parametric curves to be the same. 
To model this, the application will add the geometries of the profile to a non-linear equation, and will have a function that calculates the profile length (Add geometry).
- Constrain the area of a closed profile to have a given value. 
The value may be numeric, or may be a variable in an equation (Add geometry).
- Constrain a point to lie at the centroid of a closed profile (Add geometry).
- Constrain a point to lie a distance along a parametric curve (Add a p\_node).

Note that there are some restrictions on the types of function that can be solved:

- The functions must be scalar-valued. 
For the first two cases above the value being constrained is a scalar quantity and a single function can be used. 
For the third case two functions must be used, one to constrains the x co-ordinate of the point and another the y co-ordinate.
- The solution must be invariant under rigid transformation of the co-ordinate system. 
In other words the function can only depend on the size and relative positions of geometry and if the solved model is transformed rigidly the solution is still valid.
- The application must be able to supply the DCM with the residual of the function for given values of the variables and positions of the geometry. 
The residuals will be requested several times during an evaluation.
- The application may know that a function only depends on a particular component of the geometry. 
For example, the function value may only depend on the radius of a circle. 
In the current release the application cannot pass this information to the DCM. 
However the DCM will be able to detect this while solving the model.
- In the current release it is not possible to add regenerated parametric curves to non-linear equations. 
This restriction will be removed in a later release.

These restrictions are unlikely to limit the type of relationship that can be solved. 
However, they will need to be taken into account when integrating the software.

