## 12.5 Rigid equations

The DCM supports the creation of rigid linear equations, when it is known that the constant and coefficient terms of the equation will not change.

When the DCM solves a dimension with an associated value, it assumes that the value of the constraint is not ‘special’ and may be changed by the application in subsequent re-evaluations of the model. 
It is not possible to create two dimensions which act between the same geometries (and remove the same freedom) without over-defining the model. 
A rigid dimension is treated differently and the DCM will allow multiple rigid dimensions to be created without over-defining the model (see section [4.2 Rigid dimensions](4.2._Rigid_dimensions.md)

Equations are solved by the DCM in an analogous way to dimensions – the model is solved assuming that the given equation definition may change on later re-evaluations of the model. 
Each equation provides a constraint on the value of variables in the model and removes a model freedom in the same way as a dimension. 
It is possible to over-define a model by adding several different equations which constrain the same set of model variables. 
For example, the following consistent pair of equations which act on a simple variable (d) and a variable angle (a) would over-define a model:

d - 0.3\*a = 0

2\*d - 0.6\*a = 0

If both equations are instead added as rigid linear equations, the DCM will treat the equations are fixed, allowing the DCM to solve the constraint scheme without over-defining the model.

Rigid equations are typically useful when adding equations which represent a fixed constraint. 
It is often useful to be able to add other constraints which are consistent with the constraint represented by the equation. 
These other constraints may be logical constraints, dimensions or additional equations. 
Some examples of constraints that might be implemented using a rigid equation are:

- A generalised midpoint constraint (for example, constraining a point to lie 2/3 of the distance between two parallel lines).
- A gear coupling between two cogs (a constraint between two variable angle dimensions)

When adding a linear equation to the DCM, a dedicated equation type, DCM\_RIGID\_LINEAR\_EQUATION, is available. 
To create a linear equation which will be treated as non-rigid, the application should instead use DCM\_LINEAR\_EQUATION.

DCM functions: [add\_e](16.4._DCM_functions_for_managing_equations.md)

Frustum functions: [DCM\_equation\_type](17.9._Frustum_functions_for_variables_and_equations.md)

