## 12.7 Parameterised dimensions

In many applications it is desirable to express some dimensions in terms of others. 
There are two ways in which this can be done:

- The relationships between the dimensions can be solved external to the DCM by the application, and the DCM is just provided by the application with numerical dimension values.
- The DCM can be used to solve the relationships between the dimensions.

These alternative techniques are discussed below.

### 12.7.1 Solving outside the DCM

It is possible to use the DCM in conjunction with an application that can resolve the relationships between the dimensions, for example a spreadsheet program. 
The dimensions can then be given their appropriate numerical value before the DCM is called.

This method of working allows problems such as families of parts to be solved in a straightforward way. 
The relationships between the dimensions can be of any type and complexity provided they can be solved by the application.

The main disadvantages of this method are as follows:

- It must be possible to solve the relationships externally.
- The value of the dimensions cannot be influenced by the geometry.

### 12.7.2 Using DCM variables and equations

Details of the ways that the DCM can solve relationships between dimension values are given in chapter [2\. Fundamental DCM Concepts](2._Fundamental_DCM_Concepts.md)
This means that more complex relationships between the variables and geometries can be solved. 
For example, it would be possible to divide a bounded line into three equal parts, even if the total length of the line is unknown.

