## 12.8 Implementation in the Analyse user interface

The Analyse user interface allows variables to be used instead of numeric values, and allows variables to be linked together with equations. 
In Analyse variable names must start with a letter, and must be unique.

Once variables have been defined, they can be used in equations. 
Linear equations, non-linear equations and inequalities can be solved by the DCM. 
The equations are displayed on the graphics window and can be input in many ways.

The equation parser implemented in the Analyse user interface may modify the equation typed by the user, e.g. 
to add a constant for variable angle dimensions depending on the line directions. 
To see the equations actually being solved by the DCM, it is possible to use the command Debug... Debug xmt and then to receive the transmit file. 
Full details are provided in the on-line help pages.

### 12.8.1 Limits in the Analyse user interface

Because inequalities are always solved numerically by the DCM it is not advisable to use them extensively unless this is necessary. 
Often, an application only needs to check to see if a geometric condition is satisfied or not, and this can be achieved much more simply. 
In simple cases an application can simply measure the geometric property from the model. 
It is also possible to add variable dimensions to the DCM model and read their value.

Following a change to the model the application can compare the measured values with its permissible values and decide if the model has violated some condition. 
In this case, the application can choose how to display this information to the user. 
Although this technique cannot directly change the model to make it satisfy the conditions, it will not slow down the DCM significantly.

Analyse allows the user to input limits on the value of a variable dimension or simple variable. 
These take the form of a maximum value, minimum value or both. 
The value of the variable is compared with these limits to see if they have been violated. 
If any variable is outside its limits then dragging or animation will not update the model but will return the model to the last acceptable solution by calling undo\_evaluation.

For further details of how limits are created in Analyse see the on-line help pages.

