## 14.2 Status codes on geometries, sets, variables and p\_nodes

The same status codes are used for geometries, rigid sets (which are represented in the DCM as a type of geometry), variables and p\_nodes. 
All of these entities have degrees of freedom that can be solved by the DCM, unless they are explicitly fixed by the application. 
Not all codes are returned for all entities - the exceptions are noted.

- G\_UNKNOWN \- The entity has been added to the DCM but has not yet been evaluated. 
This status will also be used for a geometry or set immediately after it has been unfixed or unfrozen, and for a p\_node immediately after it has been unfixed.
- G\_FIXED \- The geometry, set or p\_node has been fixed by calling the fix function. 
Note that the status will be changed immediately the fix function is called. 
Not used on variables.
- G\_FROZEN \- The geometry or set has been frozen by calling the freeze function. 
Note that the status will be changed immediately the freeze function is called. 
Not used on p\_nodes or variables.
- G\_OVER\_DEFINED \- An entity will be marked as over-defined when it cannot be solved because there are too many dimensions acting on it for the degrees of freedom available.
- G\_NON\_ALGEBRAIC \- The entity has not been solved, but the DCM has identified that it could be solved using non-algebraic methods. 
This code is only returned if the application has explicitly turned off non-algebraic solving. 
See below for details.
- G\_NOT\_CONSISTENT \- This is only returned if the application has called the function set\_option and requested status codes from version 4.0.0 are used. 
This status code is returned instead of any of the other G\_NOT\_CONSISTENT\_\* codes described below.
- G\_NOT\_CONSISTENT\_DIMENSIONS \- The entity has not been solved because no solution exists for the current values of dimensions. 
This code will only be returned if the local configuration is fully dimensioned. 
See below for details of this and other not-consistent status codes.
- G\_NOT\_CONSISTENT\_OTHER \- The entity has not been solved because the DCM cannot find a solution, even though a solution may exist with the current values of dimensions. 
This status code will not be returned if the local configuration is fully dimensioned. 
This code typically occurs when trying to make large changes to under-defined models.
- G\_NOT\_CONSISTENT\_UNKNOWN \- The entity has not been solved but the DCM is not able to provide any further information.
- G\_NOT\_CHANGED \- If the DCM has found parts of the model are non-algebraic, over-defined or not-consistent then an entity that depends on the problem area will not be recalculated and will be marked G\_NOT\_CHANGED.
- G\_WELL\_DEFINED \- The DCM has evaluated the entity so that all the relevant dimensions are satisfied, and all of the degrees of freedom have been taken up by the constraints and dimensions.
- G\_UNDER\_DEFINED \- The entity has been evaluated by the DCM so that all the relevant dimensions are satisfied, but there are still some degrees of freedom remaining.

### 14.2.1 Interpretation of g\_node\_status

A geometry node has been solved only if its status code is G\_WELL\_DEFINED or G\_UNDER\_DEFINED. 
The DCM will not move any node if its status is G\_FIXED or G\_FROZEN. 
All other codes indicate that the node has not been solved by the DCM.

