## 14.3 Status codes on dimensions and equations

The codes are used for dimensions (including logical constraints) and equations.

- D\_UNKNOWN \- The entity has been added since the last evaluation.
- D\_BETWEEN\_SET\_MEMBERS \- This is returned for dimensions or constraints that are between only geometry which is in the same set, including radii on circles and ellipses in a set.
- D\_BETWEEN\_FIXED \- This is returned for dimensions or constraints that are between only fixed or frozen geometry, including radii on fixed or frozen circles and ellipses.
- D\_OVER\_DEFINED \- The dimension or equation has not been solved because it conflicts with one or more other dimensions or equations. 
Over-defined entities occur in "loops" where all of the entities in a loop conflict with each other. 
Over-defined entities can also occur when there are too many fixed geometries. 
This code is also used where unsupported constraint configurations are constructed, e.g. 
arc length dimension where the points are not coincident to the circle.
- D\_NON\_ALGEBRAIC \- The entity has not been solved, but the DCM has identified that it could be solved using non-algebraic methods. 
This code is only returned if the application has explicitly turned off non-algebraic solving. 
See below for further details.
- D\_NOT\_CONSISTENT \- This is only returned if the application has called the function set\_option and requested status codes from version 4.0.0 are used. 
This status code is returned instead of any of the other G\_NOT\_CONSISTENT\_\* codes described below. 
This status is also used to mark constraints between frozen geometry if they are not satisfied by the geometry positions.
- D\_NOT\_CONSISTENT\_DIMENSIONS \- The entity has not been solved because no solution exists for the current values of dimensions. 
This code will only be returned if the local configuration is fully dimensioned. 
See below for details of this and other not-consistent status codes.
- D\_NOT\_CONSISTENT\_OTHER \- The entity has not been solved because the DCM cannot find a solution, even though a solution may exist with the current values of dimensions. 
This status code will not be returned if the local configuration is fully dimensioned. 
This code typically occurs when trying to make large changes to under-defined models.
- D\_NOT\_CONSISTENT\_UNKNOWN \- The entity has not been solved but the DCM is not able to provide any further information.
- D\_NOT\_CHANGED \- This is only returned if the application has called the function set\_option and requested status codes from version 4.1.0 or 4.0.0 are used. 
This status code is returned instead of D\_NOT\_SOLVED, D\_BETWEEN\_FIXED and D\_BETWEEN\_SET\_MEMBERS.
- D\_NOT\_SOLVED \- This code is returned if it has not been able to solve a dimension because it is connected to a geometry that is over-defined or not-consistent.
- D\_SOLVED \- The entity has been solved and is satisfied by the position of its associated geometries.

### 14.3.1 Interpretation of d\_node\_status

A dimension node has been solved only if its status code is D\_SOLVED. 
The DCM will not attempt to solve any dimensions between geometries in the same set (D\_BETWEEN\_SET\_MEMBERS) or dimensions between fixed geometries (D\_BETWEEN\_FIXED). All other codes indicate that the dimension has not been solved by the DCM.

