## 7.2 Dimensions and constraints to parametric curves

This section describes the types of constraints and dimensions that can be applied to a parametric curve, and how these are interpreted by the DCM. 
Except where explicitly stated the information applies to spline curves, conics and evaluated parametric curves.

### 7.2.1 Tangent, normal, coincident to point and distance

A tangent constraint can be placed between a parametric curve and a line, circle, ellipse or another parametric curve.

A normal constraint can be placed between a parametric curve and a line, circle, ellipse or another parametric curve.

A coincident constraint can be placed between a point and a parametric curve. 
The point will lie on the parametric curve, and may be solved to be on a discontinuity.

- A distance dimension can be placed between a parametric curve and any other type of geometry. 
It is be possible to find solutions that measure exactly onto the discontinuity. 
For example, a point that has a distance dimension to a G1 discontinuity can lie anywhere on an arc centred on the discontinuity (see section [7.4 Constraints to curves with geometric discontinuities](7.4._Constraints_to_curves_with_geometric_discontinuities.md)

When using constraints of these types, the application must supply help parameters. 
See section [7.3 Help parameters](7.3._Help_parameters.md)

### 7.2.2 Dependence constraints

A dependence constraint can be added between an evaluated parametric curve and any other geometry (including another parametric curve). Adding one or more dependence constraints will turn the curve into a dependent parametric curve. 
See section [9.4 Dependent evaluated parametric curves](9.4._Dependent_evaluated_parametric_curves.md)

### 7.2.3 Symmetric, coincident, patterned and equal relative transform

It is possible to add constraints of these types between two evaluated parametric curves. 
For these curves the shape is controlled by the application and the DCM will assume that the application will make the shape of the curves satisfy the constraints whenever the geometry it depends on changes. 
It may use the presence of these constraints to detect and remove other redundant constraints. 
See section [9.4.1 Constraints onto dependent parametric curves](9.4._Dependent_evaluated_parametric_curves.md)

It is possible to add these constraints between spline curves (providing that they have the same degree, number of control points and knot vectors). For example, if two spline curves are made coincident then their control points will be made coincident.

For conics, a limited set of these constraints are supported depending on the specific types of conic in use. 
See [10.4 Constraints to conics](10.4._Constraints_to_conics.md)

Note it is usually more efficient to model any copies of a parametric, conic or spline curve by using the DCM copy curve type, rather than adding another parametric or spline that has the same shape. 
The DCM supports the use of coincident, patterned and equal relative transform constraints between a parametric (or spline) and a copy curve based on that parametric. 
See [11.2 Copy geometry](11.2._Copy_geometry.md)
Symmetric parametrics must be defined independently with the application ensuring the definitions are compatible.

### 7.2.4 Parallel, perpendicular and angle

These dimensions can be placed between a parametric curve and a line, ellipse or another parametric curve. 
They will control the relative directions of the geometries.

- The direction of an evaluated parametric curve is defined by the application, and is any direction that the application chooses. 
See [9\. Evaluated parametric curves](9._Evaluated_parametric_curves.md)
- The direction of a conic curve is calculated by the DCM.
- The direction of a spline curve with rigidity DCM\_BS\_RIGIDITY\_RIGID, DCM\_BS\_RIGIDITY\_SCALABLE or DCM\_BS\_RIGIDITY\_FLEXIBLE is calculated by the DCM. 
The direction of a uni-scalable or bi-scalable spline curve (with rigidity DCM\_BS\_RIGIDITY\_UNI\_SCALABLE, DCM\_BS\_BI\_SCALABLE) is determined by the current scaling direction (see [16.6.1 DCM\_bs\_data – spline data structure](16.6._Spline_functions.md)

### 7.2.5 Equal curve property constraints

The constraints can be placed between a parametric curve and a line, circle, ellipse or another parametric curve. 
Some combinations are not permitted, e.g., equal direction constraint to a circle. 
See section [4.3.14 Equal curve property constraints](4.3._Logical_constraints.md)

Equal curve property constraints can be used to ensure higher levels of continuity between pairs of parametric curves.

### 7.2.6 Curve length dimension

The length of a parametric curve or ellipse can be controlled using a curve length dimension. 
See section [4.1.6 Curve length](4.1._Dimensions_with_a_value.md)

To dimension the full length of an open curve it is possible to use fixed p\_nodes at the start and end of the curve. 
To dimension the full length of a periodic curve it is necessary to use two fixed p\_nodes where the parameter value at one p\_node is the parametric period + the parameter value at the other p\_node.

