## 5.6 Dimension half space

Another method of controlling the chirality is available for distance dimensions to curves: signed distances. 
The DCM allows the definition of signed distances using the concept of half space. 
In 2D, a general curve can be considered to divide space locally into two portions, or "halves". For an infinite line this division does divide space into equal halves, whereas for all other geometry, the definition is local to the position where the dimension is measured.

For a distance to a circle, the measurement may be "inside" or "outside" of the circle locally, although for a distance into the circle greater than the circle diameter, the solved position will of course be outside the circle on the opposite side.

For a general curve, the half space can be considered to be defined locally as either on the left or right side of the curve as defined by its tangent direction at the measured location.

The direction of a curve is defined in 2D DCM as follows:

- Line – Direction specified by DCM\_line\_direction Frustum function.
- Circle, ellipse – Anti-clockwise.
- Parametric curves (including spline, conic, etc.) – Positive in direction of increasing parameter.

The application can specify that a dimension should be considered positive if it lies on the space that lies on the left or right side of the curve.

Note that because half space must always be defined local to the solution on the curve, the DCM requires that help points be defined for a signed distance to a circle – minimum distance dimensions (i.e. 
no help points defined) are not supported.

Half spaces can also be set with respect to the four ends involved in an equal distance constraint, using the dedicated Frustum function DCM\_equal\_distance\_half\_space. 
Limitations on supported half space combinations are detailed in section [17.2.8 DCM\_dimension\_half\_space – Return region of distance to a curve](17.2._Basic_dimension_functions.md)

Frustum functions: [DCM\_dimension\_half\_space](17.2._Basic_dimension_functions.md)

### 5.6.1 Interaction between half-space and other chirality controls

Note that when a half space is defined for a distance dimension, this takes precedence over other chirality controls that would otherwise be available. 
In particular, the function change\_chirality cannot be used to change the solution of a signed distance dimension. 
The application can instead swap the side of the dimension by simply negating the value of the distance and re-evaluating the model.

The half space Frustum function allows any application to specify the half space for both ends of a dimension between lines and circles. 
This allows an application to create models where the half spaces conflict with the positions of help points on circles. 
In these circumstances, the half space chosen will take precedence over the help point positions, and the DCM will solve the model, even if that means that the help point will jump to the other side of the circle.

With a distance dimension between lines, setting the half space with respect to both lines allows an application to control the alignment between the lines. 
For example if the half spaces for a distance between lines are set to the same type (e.g. 
both set to left) then the lines must be anti-aligned. 
If half spaces are used to control the parallel alignment between two lines the model can become over-defined if the half space controls conflict with other model properties (e.g. 
parallel alignment between the lines).

When half spaces are set on the two distances related by an equal distance constraint, further chirality control can be achieved by, for example, using those half spaces in combination with the half spaces set on an additional simple distance dimension with a signed value defined on one of the pairs.

