## 16.10 Partition specific solving

The functions described in this section operate on a limited portion of the whole model added to DCM. 
The exact portion of the DCM model that will be included in the operation is determined by the DCM partition structure (see [2.5.3.1 Model partitioning](2.5._Evaluating_the_model.md)

The argument active\_nodes contains an array of DCM nodes. 
These are defined as b\_nodes (for "base" nodes) which can be used to represent any of the other different types of node (g\_node, d\_node, r\_node, p\_node, v\_node and e\_node). The b\_node type is only used in functions which perform evaluations on specific partition.

For each function, DCM will operate on all of the partitions that have a node included in the active\_nodes list. 
The remaining partitions, should there be any, will not be affected by the operation. 
The order of the active\_nodes array should not have any affect on the solution.

When choosing which nodes should be included in the active\_nodes, the best strategy will depend on the precise purpose of the call. 
The anticipated use of the partition-specific solving functions is to solve a previously-satisfied model to which a minor modification is being made: e.g. 
a change in a dimension value, or the movement of a localised group of geometry. 
In this case, the recommended strategy is to specify in active\_nodes only the nodes the application is specifically changing. 
For example:

- If only dimension values are modified from a model in a satisfied position, the active\_nodes list should include only those specific d\_nodes. 
DCM will automatically solve any geometry which could be moved as a consequence of those dimension changes (the geometry will be in the same partition).
- If the position, size or shape of geometry is being changed in a model in a satisfied position, the active\_nodes list should include only the geometry being modified. 
DCM will determine the necessary constraints and equations to include in order to solve these geometry, and any connected geometry, correctly.

Note that some fixed geometry may be in more than one partition. 
If the fixed geometry is included in the active\_nodes array, DCM will solve all partitions in which it exists. 
Therefore, it is recommended that fixed nodes are not included in active\_nodes, unless the application is moving the fixed geometry and thus requires all connected geometry to be updated.

Note that where these functions include g\_nodes as additional arguments, DCM will automatically add these to the active\_nodes array if they are not already included within it.

At the start of any partition-specific solve, DCM will use the Frustum to enquire the positions and values of all the nodes in the partitions being solved. 
No Frustum calls will be made for nodes in other partitions.

Note that for all these functions, as for the main evaluate-type functions, Frustum functions to update statuses are only made for nodes that changes state. 
There will be no Frustum calls to nodes that are in partitions that are not being processed (i.e. 
no calls to output DCM\_UNKNOWN statuses).

For partitioned models, enquiry of statuses after a partition-specific evaluate via the status function can be expected to result in some DCM\_UNKNOWN returns for those partitions not solved.

### 16.10.1 evaluate\_partitions - Evaluate specified partitions only

DCM\_evaluation\_type evaluate\_partitions( int n\_active,

b\_node\*\* active\_nodes, int ng = 0,

g\_node\*\* gn = DCM\_NULL,

DCM\_solving\_mode mode = DCM\_STANDARD\_SOLVE);

Solves only the geometry connected to the specified active\_nodes. 
Otherwise identical to the evaluate function.

Since DCM will not consider any partitions beyond those containing the specified active nodes, the return value indicates only the evaluation types for the partitions being solved. 
Therefore a return of DCM\_FULL\_EVAL indicates that all selected partitions were solved fully – it does not mean that there are no unsolved partitions.

After a call to this function, the DCM may be in an evaluated state, or it may be only partially evaluated – it depends on how many partitions actually exist and on which active nodes were specified. 
Therefore, before calling functions such as auto\_dimension, which rely upon a fully evaluated model, a full evaluation should be performed. 
This can be achieved most efficiently by calling the main re\_evaluate function with the same options as the call to evaluate\_partitions.

If a model cannot be partitioned, or if all the partitions in the model contain at least one of the requested nodes, then this function is equivalent to evaluate.

### 16.10.2 re\_evaluate\_partitions – Incrementally evaluate specified partitions

DCM\_evaluation\_type re\_evaluate\_partitions( int n\_active,

b\_node\*\* active\_nodes, int ng = 0, g\_node\*\* gn = DCM\_NULL,

DCM\_logical calc\_status = DCM\_FALSE,

DCM\_solving\_mode mode = DCM\_STANDARD\_SOLVE);

Incrementally solve a restricted set of DCM geometry specified by active\_nodes. 
See re\_evaluate for details of the main arguments.

For each partition, DCM tracks any changes since the previous attempt to solve it. 
Therefore some partitions referenced may be in a reset state, with no solution stored, whilst for others the solution for the last evaluation may be available to re-use.

The return value from the function indicates whether the DCM was able to solve the specific partitions incrementally (DCM\_FULLY\_INCREMENTAL\_EVAL), or if any (DCM\_PARTIALLY\_INCREMENTAL\_EVAL) or all (DCM\_FULL\_EVAL) required  a full evaluate. 
The return code does not indicate whether any other partitions exist nor whether they have been solved.

If a model cannot be partitioned, or if all the partitions in the model contain at least one of the requested nodes, then this function is equivalent to re\_evaluate.

### 16.10.3 dynamic\_evaluate\_partitions - Drag under-defined geometry in partitions

DCM\_evaluation\_type dynamic\_evaluate\_partitions(

int n\_active, b\_node\*\* active\_nodes,

int n\_geom, g\_node\*\* gn,

double (\*\*mat)\[3\], double\* rad,

DCM\_dragging\_transformation\* dragt,

DCM\_dragging\_result\* res,

DCM\_dragging\_option opt = DCM\_DRAG\_POSSIBLE,

DCM\_solving\_mode mode = DCM\_MINIMUM\_MOVE\_SOLVE);

Transform geometry in a specified manner whilst solving only a limited portion of the model. 
This function can be used to drag a limited number of geometries such that any relevant constraints are solved, whilst avoiding the need to solve any unrelated constraints and dimensions in the rest of the model.

If a model cannot be partitioned, or if all the partitions in the model contain at least one of the requested nodes, then this function is equivalent to dynamic\_evaluate.

### 16.10.4 undo\_evaluation\_partitions – Restore partitions to a previous state

DCM\_evaluation\_type undo\_evaluation\_partitions( int n\_active,

b\_node\*\* active\_nodes, DCM\_undo\_mode um);

Transforms the geometry connected to that listed in active\_nodes to a previous state. 
See undo\_evaluation for key details.

This function can be used to undo only the limited geometry that has been solved using the functions evaluate\_partitions, re\_evaluate\_partitions, and dynamic\_evaluate\_partitions. 
Note that there is an interaction between the undo\_evaluation\_partitions and undo\_evaluation functions: Either function may be called after the any of the evaluate-type functions. 
The exact behaviour obtained will be determined by the undo mode and the history of previous calls to evaluate- and undo\_evaluation-type functions.

For example: In a model with three partitions (A, B and C), it is possible to perform a sequence of calls to dynamic\_evaluate\_partitions to drag geometry in partition A, followed by a similar sequence to take more drag steps for different geometry in partition B. 
This could then be followed by a call to the main dynamic\_evaluate function to drag geometry which happens to be part of partition C. 
In that case, a call to undo\_evalution on the whole model, would cause either the previous drag step of every partition to be reversed (with UNDO\_TO\_PREVIOUS mode) or else all drag steps of every partition to be reversed (with UNDO\_TO\_INTIAL mode).

On the other hand, a call to undo\_evaluation\_partitions with a node in a single partition would reverse the drag step or steps from only that partition, regardless of whether it was A or B, which were evaluated via the partition-specific function or partition C, which was evaluated only with the whole-model solving function.

To avoid complications of this nature, customers can use the reset function ( [16.8.5 reset - Prevent an incremental evaluation](16.8._Model_evaluation.md)

