## 16.13 Model enquiry functions

The functions in this section allow an application to enquire the DCM model data.

When the application defines a DCM model it tells the DCM many relationships between entities. 
For example, when a dimension is added the DCM is told which geometries are involved. 
The DCM now provides a number of functions to enquire this information from the DCM.

The functions are read-only; i.e. 
they do not alter the DCM model or prevent an incremental evaluation.

### 16.13.1 list\_\*\_nodes - Returns array of nodes

int list\_g\_nodes(int ng = 0, g\_node\*\* gna = DCM\_NULL,void\*\* aga = DCM\_NULL);

int list\_e\_nodes(int ne = 0, e\_node\*\* ena = DCM\_NULL, void\*\* app = DCM\_NULL);

int list\_v\_nodes(int nv = 0, v\_node\*\* vna = DCM\_NULL, void\*\* app = DCM\_NULL);

int list\_p\_nodes(int np = 0, p\_node\*\* pna = DCM\_NULL, void\*\* app=DCM\_NULL);

int list\_d\_nodes(int nd = 0, d\_node\*\* dna = DCM\_NULL,

    v\_node\*\* vna = DCM\_NULL, void\*\* ada = DCM\_NULL);

int list\_r\_nodes(int nr = 0, r\_node\*\* rna = DCM\_NULL,

    v\_node\*\* vna = DCM\_NULL, void\*\* ara = DCM\_NULL);

These functions are provided to assist with debugging an application. 
They take an array of the appropriate type and an integer that gives the length of the array. 
They will return the total number of nodes of the given type and fill the arrays with the nodes.

An application can make use of these functions to check that its own lists of nodes correspond to those currently in the DCM. 
If these functions are called with a zero length array they will just return the total number of nodes.

For dimensions and radii, an optional array and an integer giving its length may be given. 
If the corresponding node has been made variable by calling add\_v, this array will be filled with pointers to the variables.

### 16.13.2 application\_pointer - Return application reference for DCM nodes

void\* application\_pointer( g\_node\* gn );

void\* application\_pointer( d\_node\* dn );

void\* application\_pointer( r\_node\* rn );

void\* application\_pointer( e\_node\* en );

void\* application\_pointer( v\_node\* vn );

void\* application\_pointer( p\_node\* pn );

These functions return the application reference (treated as type void\*) corresponding to the given DCM node.

There is additionally a global variable defined in the 2D DCM headers:

void\* DCM\_application\_pointer;

In single threaded usage, this variable can be used within 2D DCM Frustum functions to obtain the pointer of the 2D DCM instance that has called the Frustum. 
This is the application pointer that was passed to DCM in the constructor of the dimension\_system object, or else a pointer to the dimension\_system itself if no pointer was specified in the constructor.

The use of this variable is deprecated, however, since it cannot be used in a multithreaded environment: If the application is using the 2D DCM in multiple threads, the value of the application\_pointer variable is not guaranteed to be correct when called from a Frustum function.

It is recommended that applications use whichever application pointer has been passed as one of the arguments to the Frustum function to identify the relevant DCM instance. 
There is a version of every Frustum function that passes at least one application pointer: where this is required only to identify the calling DCM, the global application pointer defined for the dimension\_sytsem class is passed back.

Certain Frustum functions are deprecated, because they provide no available application pointer context; These functions have replacement versions defined. 
See [17.12.11 Deprecated functions](17.12._Miscellaneous_functions.md)

### 16.13.3 Entity association functions

The functions in this section can return pointers to the nodes (and their corresponding application pointers) associated with a given input node. 
For example get\_x\_of\_y corresponds to an input node of type y, and output nodes of type x.

The following notes apply to all the entity association functions:

- The application supplies arrays to be filled with the requested data and an integer giving the length of the array. 
The DCM will return as much data as possible in these arrays. 
The return value indicates the total number of associated nodes.
- If called with zero length arrays the functions will just return the number of nodes.
- Any returned array of associated nodes will not contain any duplicates.
- The order in which nodes are returned in the arrays is important for certain associations. 
There may also be certain other factors to consider for a given association function. 
These cases are documented below.

The following table lists the numbers of nodes that can be returned, where a blank indicates that nodes will never be returned.

get\_x\_of\_y

y¯x®

g node

g node (set)

d node

r node

v node

e node

p node

g\_node (geometry)

0-n

0-1

0-n

0-n

0-n

0-n

g\_node (set or pattern)

0-n

g\_node (offset)

1-n

0-n

0-n

0-n

d\_node

1-4

0-1

0-2

r\_node

1

1

0-1

v\_node

0-1

0-1

0-n

e\_node

0-n

0-n

0-n

p\_node

1

1-n

0-n

Table 8: Numbers of nodes returned by the entity association functions

#### 16.13.3.1 get\_?\_of\_g - Return nodes associated with a given g\_node

int get\_g\_of\_g( g\_node\* gn, int ng = 0, g\_node\*\* gna = DCM\_NULL,

             void\*\* aga = DCM\_NULL );

Return all the geometry nodes dimensioned to node gn.

For pattern nodes, the pattern reference geometry is returned first in the array, followed by the geometries in the pattern.

For offset geometries, the parent and any children geometry are returned first, followed by any other associated geometries.

For copy geometries, the parent geometry is returned first. 
For geometries are parents of copy geometries all the copy geometries are returned.

For sets, this will return the geometries present in the set.

int get\_d\_of\_g( g\_node\* gn, int nd = 0, d\_node\*\* dna = DCM\_NULL,

       void\*\* ada = DCM\_NULL );

Return all the dimensions attached to the geometry node gn.

int get\_r\_of\_g( g\_node\* gn, int nr = 0, r\_node\*\* rna = DCM\_NULL,

       void\*\* ara = DCM\_NULL );

Return all the internal freedom (radius or pattern value dimensions) nodes or the lock constraints attached to the geometry node gn. 
Typically only a limited number of lock constraints will be applied to a geometry, since there will only be at most two internal freedoms to remove (e.g. 
radii) and a single lock whole, or both a lock direction and lock centre, will fully define the position.

int get\_e\_of\_g( g\_node\* gn, int ne = 0, e\_node\*\* ena = DCM\_NULL,

       void\*\* aea = DCM\_NULL );

Return all the equations containing the geometry node gn.

int get\_p\_of\_g( g\_node\* gn, int np = 0, p\_node\*\* pna = DCM\_NULL,

       void\*\* apa = DCM\_NULL );

List all the p\_nodes associated with geometry gn.

int get\_s\_of\_g( g\_node\* gn, g\_node\*\* set = DCM\_NULL, void\*\* as = DCM\_NULL );

If gn is in a set, the set node is returned and the return value is 1. If gn is not in a set the return value is 0.

#### 16.13.3.2 get\_?\_of\_d - Return nodes associated with a given d\_node

int get\_g\_of\_d( d\_node\* dn, int ng = 0, g\_node\*\* gna = DCM\_NULL,

       void\*\* aga = DCM\_NULL );

In dn is a dimension, return the geometry node or nodes constrained.

For equal-distance d\_nodes, up to 4 geometries will be returned. 
The original pair of geometries in the constraint will be returned first, followed by a second pair if all 4 geometries in the constraint are distinct, or a single geometry if the constraint is only between three nodes. 
If the constraint is between only two geometries then only the two geometries will be returned.

For midpoint d\_nodes, the two geometries defining the midpoint are returned first, followed by the geometry at the midpoint.

For patterned d\_nodes, the original and patterned geometries are returned first, followed by the relevant pattern node.

For symmetric d\_nodes, the reflected geometries are returned followed by the axis.

int get\_v\_of\_d( d\_node\* dn, v\_node\*\* vn = DCM\_NULL, void\*\* av = DCM\_NULL );

Return the variable node if dn is a variable dimension.

int get\_p\_of\_d( d\_node\* dn, int np = 0, p\_node\*\* pna = DCM\_NULL,

       void\*\* apa = DCM\_NULL );

For an equal-parameter constraint, the two parameter nodes constrained will be returned. 
For other dimensions and constraints, it will return any parameter nodes created using the function parameter\_node.

#### 16.13.3.3 get\_?\_of\_r - Return nodes associated with a given r\_node

int get\_g\_of\_r( r\_node\* rn, g\_node\*\* gn = DCM\_NULL, void\*\* ag = DCM\_NULL );

Return the circle or ellipse dimensioned by the radius node rn, or the geometry or set that is constrained with a lock\_constraint..

int get\_v\_of\_r( r\_node\* rn, v\_node\*\* vn = DCM\_NULL, void\*\* av = DCM\_NULL );

Return the variable node if rn is a variable radius. 
A lock constraint r\_node cannot be associated to a variable.

#### 16.13.3.4 get\_?\_of\_e - Return nodes associated with a given e\_node

int get\_g\_of\_e( e\_node\* en, int ng = 0, g\_node\*\* gna = DCM\_NULL,

       void\*\* aga = DCM\_NULL );

int get\_v\_of\_e( e\_node\* en, int nv = 0, v\_node\*\* vna = DCM\_NULL,

       void\*\* ava = DCM\_NULL );

int get\_p\_of\_e( e\_node\* en, int np = 0, p\_node\*\* pna = DCM\_NULL,

       void\*\* apa = DCM\_NULL );

Return all the geometry nodes, variables or parameter nodes added to equation en.

#### 16.13.3.5 get\_?\_of\_v - Return nodes associated with a given v\_node

int get\_r\_of\_v( v\_node\* vn, r\_node\*\* rn = DCM\_NULL, void\*\* ad = DCM\_NULL );

Return the radius node if vn has been created as a variable radius.

int get\_d\_of\_v( v\_node\* vn, int nd = 0, d\_node\*\* dna = DCM\_NULL,

       void\*\* ada = DCM\_NULL );

Return the dimension node if vn has been created as a variable dimension.

int get\_e\_of\_v( v\_node\* vn, int ne = 0, e\_node\*\* ena = DCM\_NULL,

       void\*\* aea = DCM\_NULL );

List the equations containing the variable vn.

#### 16.13.3.6 get\_?\_of\_p - Return nodes associated with a given p\_node

int get\_d\_of\_p( p\_node\* pn, int nd = 0, d\_node\*\* dna = DCM\_NULL,

        void\*\* ada = DCM\_NULL );

List the dimension associated to the parameter node pn. 
A parameter node is always guaranteed to have at least one associated d\_node (the constraint that gave rise to the p\_node) and it may have any number of DCM\_EQUAL\_PARAMETER constraints applied to it.

int get\_g\_of\_p( p\_node\* pn, g\_node\*\* gn = DCM\_NULL, void\*\* ag = DCM\_NULL );

Return the geometry node associated to the parameter node pn.

int get\_e\_of\_p( p\_node\* pn, int ne = 0, e\_node\*\* ena = DCM\_NULL,

       void\*\* aea = DCM\_NULL );

List the equations containing the parameter node pn.

