## 16.14 Testing and debugging DCM functions

The functions in this section are designed to assist with the development of an application. 
They can also be used to investigate possible problems with the DCM when it is integrated into an application.

### 16.14.1 journal\_by\_ptr - Write interface and Frustum calls to a file

DCM\_logical journal\_by\_ptr( DCM2\_file\* fp, unsigned int options =

    DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_ON \| DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_XMIT \|

    DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_XMIT\_START, int p\_segs = 10);

This function is used to start or stop the journalling of all DCM and Frustum calls to the specified file. 
When starting journaling an application may choose to configure the behaviour with a number of options. 
The file is specified by a pointer, fp, to a DCM2\_file object which provides access to a file stream opened by the application. 
See section [16.14.1.2 DCM2\_file object](#_Ref498011414) for how to use this.

The variable options is used to define options to the functions. 
See section [16.14.1.3 Journalling options](#_Ref498013836) for more details. 
Optionally the argument p\_segs can be used to change the default minimum number of segments on a parametric curve which will be recorded in the output file to approximate the customer’s curve. 
The functions return DCM\_TRUE if journalling is on as a result of the call and DCM\_FALSE if journalling is turned off by the call.

Each instance of the DCM has a separate journaling state: It is possible have multiple DCM instances and to be journaling only one of these at any given time, or to have each DCM journaling to a different journal file.

Note that in older version of DCM (before version 68) journaling was a global state shared between all DCM instances in a single process. 
This is no longer the case (to ensure thread-safety).

It should be noted that different operating systems have different behaviour for writing to files. 
For example, with later Windows run-time libraries, an attempt to write to a FILE\* after closing the file will result in an exception being thrown (attempt to write to a closed filehandle), Other OS versions will silently ignore this behaviour.

It should be noted that it is possible (but not recommended) to start journaling with a call to one of journal\_by\_ptr / journal\_by\_name and then to stop it using a call to the other function – there is only one journaling state internal to a single DCM instance.

#### 16.14.1.1 Contents of a journal file

The journal file will contain all details of the DCM interaction from when the journalling was started and the model data at various key stages. 
This data will be specific to a single DCM instance; applications using multiple concurrent DCM instances will need to enable journaling in each if desired. 
In this case, it is recommended that a different journal file be used for each.

It is possible to change the journal file within a session and also to return to a previous file and continue journalling. 
To do this will require that the journal function is called twice, once to stop journalling to the first file and secondly to start journalling in the new file.

The information contained in the journal file includes:

- A header section identifying the version of the DCM and the platform environment
- Sequence number of the call. 
Starting from 1, the sequence number is incremented even if journalling is not switched on. 
The sequence number is specific to each DCM instance.
- An identifier to show which dimension system is called.
- The name of the function being called; the corresponding C interface names are used for overloaded C++ functions.
- The function arguments. 
Pointers are output with a leading % sign, arrays are in square brackets and the DCM types are output as text.
- The return value.
- The model data (transmit file) depending on the journalling option.
- The time spent in a function. 
This may be used to detect possible performance problems with the integration by identifying slow Frustum calls.

With journal\_by\_ptr, an application is able to write their own data to journal file in between DCM calls. 
This can be a useful way to indicate which application operation is happening when certain DCM calls are made and be very useful for debugging problems. 
Any such data should be prefixed by the "#" symbol at the start of each line of text so that when a journal file is processed automatically via D-Cubed Components debugging tools (including the Analyse test harness) these lines may be automatically ignored.

#### 16.14.1.2 DCM2\_file object

As an alternative to specifying a file name, the DCM allows the application to construct and pass a structure of type DCM2\_file. 
This gives a greater degree of flexibility and control. 
In particular, it will allow journalling data from more than one source to be written to the same file.

The definition of the structure is as follows:

typedef struct DCM2\_file {

FILE\* file;

DCM2\_fwrite\_function fwrite;

DCM2\_fflush\_function fflush;

} DCM2\_file\_object;

These are:

- file – This is a pointer that has been returned by the C function fopen. 
The file must be opened with write access.
- fwrite – This is a pointer to a function that is used by the DCM for writing to the journal file. 
It is defined as:



typedef int (\*DCM2\_fwrite\_function) (const void\* buffer, size\_t size,

size\_t count, FILE\* file);
- fflush – This is a pointer to a function that is used by the DCM for forcing all pending data to be written to the journal file. 
It is defined as:



typedef int (\*DCM2\_fflush\_function)( FILE\* file );

It is recommended that DCM2\_file structures are created using one of the following convenience methods:

- #define DCM2\_file\_construct(file\_obj, file\_ptr) \

DCM2\_file\_construct\_full(file\_obj, file\_ptr, &fwrite, &fflush)



This is a macro that will create a DCM2\_file structure using the local functions fwrite and fflush.
- DCM2\_file\* DCM2\_file\_construct\_full(DCM2\_file\* file\_obj, FILE\* file,

DCM2\_fwrite\_function fwrite, DCM2\_fflush\_function fflush);



This is a function that will create a DCM2\_file structure using specified functions.

#### 16.14.1.3 Journalling options

The journal\_by\_ptr and journal\_by\_name functions allow applications to pass a bit-mask which specifies what will subsequently be written to the journal file. 
The integer opts is the sum of the following enumerated types:

typedef enum DCM\_journal\_options{

DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_OFF= 0x00000000,

DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_ON= 0x00000001,

DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_XMIT= 0x00000002,

DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_XMIT\_INC= 0x00000004,

DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_XMIT\_START= 0x00000008,

DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_FRU\_OFF= 0x00000010,

DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_MATHS\_FRU\_ON= 0x00000020,

DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_FLUSH\_OFF= 0x00000040,

} DCM\_journal\_options;

The functionalities enabled by each enumerated type are described below:

- DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_OFF \- Switch off journalling.
- DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_ON \- Switch on journalling.
- DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_XMIT \- Output model data when the DCM is about to do a full evaluation. 
This will include the first evaluation in drag sequence (dynamic\_evaluate) or a full evaluation from re\_evaluate.
- DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_XMIT\_INC \- Output model data when the DCM is about to do an incremental evaluation (e.g. 
when dragging). This option must be set to get an embedded transmit file from the second or later call in a sequence of dynamic\_evaluate or re\_evaluate functions.
- DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_XMIT\_START \- Output any existing model data when journalling is started. 
It is strongly recommended that journaling is enabled before any model data is added to DCM in order to make the journal most useful. 
However, in the event that model data is in the system, setting this flag will cause DCM to create an embedded transmit file showing that data.

Note that whether this option is set or not, a journal file will include a warning listing the number of pre-existing nodes in the DCM instance when journaling is created, if it is non-empty.
- DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_FRU\_OFF – Disable journalling of Frustum function calls. 
This option may be used to reduce the size of the files but should not be for creating any files sent to report a problem.
- DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_MATHS\_FRU\_ON – Enable journalling of any external LAPACK maths library that has been registered. 
This option will result in very large journal files, and should only be enabled if requested by a member of the DCubed Components Support team.
- DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_FLUSH\_OFF – Switch off flushing of the journal buffer one line at a time.

The default mode for DCM journaling is flushing the buffer for each line, which allows to capture as many calls to the DCM and Frustum as possible within the journal file.

This option, which turns off flushing, can be enabled if there are concerns regarding slow writing times (e.g. 
writing to a network file on most systems). In normal circumstances flushing for each line is efficient.

Customers reporting crashes or exceptions involving DCM interactions should ensure this option is not set so that the journal file is as complete as possible.

#### 16.14.1.4 Example code

The following shows how an application can turn on journalling to a file dcm2.jou using the default options and number of parametric segments:

// Create a new dimension system

dsp = new DCM2\_dimension\_system;

// Switch on journalling

DCM2\_file jou\_file;

DCM2\_file\_construct(&jou\_file, fopen("dcm2.jou","w"));

if (jou\_file.file)

dsp->journal\_by\_ptr(&jou\_file);

else

cout << "\*\*\* Failed to open journal file" << endl2;

Note that whilst it is possible to stop journaling via a call to journal\_by\_ptr with the DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_OFF bit set it is recommended that for most cases that journaling be left on when the DCM instance is deleted. 
DCM will turn off journaling from within its destructor but before it does this it will journal the erasing of any remaining DCM objects which may provide useful debugging information.

Note that if relying on the DCM destructor to turn off journaling as recommended it is essential that the FILE\* used by DCM is not closed before the DCM destructor is called or a system exception may occur.

#### 16.14.1.5 Embedded transmit files

When used with the DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_XMIT\_\* options, the journal file will contain sections that are embedded transmit files representing a snapshot of the model state in DCM at that point. 
These sections are equivalent to the files produced by the debug\_xmit function.

The regions are always inserted betwee two lines of the form:

#XMIT START transmit\_description

#XMIT END

The data between these two lines can be extracted and saved to a .xmt file that can be loaded by the D-Cubed Components Analyse test program.

The specific string for the transmit\_description will indicated whether it is from the "start" or the "end" of a particular operation, will include the operation identifier (e.g. 
"re\_eval" or "eval") and will have an integer postfix indicating which call of that type has been made in the file.

So for a journal of session containing a full re\_evaluate followed by two drag steps and a final full re\_evaluate, if the journal options include DCM\_JOU\_XMIT\_INC and DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_XMIT\_INC there should be transmits embedded with the labels:

- start\_re\_eval\_1
- start\_dyn\_eval\_1
- end\_dyn\_eval\_1
- start\_dyn\_eval\_2
- end\_dyn\_eval\_2
- start\_re\_eval\_2
- start\_dyn\_eval\_2

For more information on the transmit files see section [16.14.2 debug\_xmit - Writes a transmit file from the DCM](#_Ref497988449).

### 16.14.2 debug\_xmit - Writes a transmit file from the DCM

DCM\_logical debug\_xmit( const char\* f\_name = "dcmdebug.xmt", int p\_segs = 10,

       DCM\_logical do\_flush = DCM\_TRUE );

This function is provided to allow an application to write out a transmit file corresponding to the data currently held in the DCM. 
This file can then be read into the Analyse user interface. 
This can be useful as a way of debugging an application, or of investigating a suspected problem in the DCM.

- f\_name is the name of the transmit file created. 
The default file name is dcmdebug.xmt. 
This file will be overwritten if it already exists. 
If the DCM cannot open this file the function will return DCM\_FALSE, otherwise it will return DCM\_TRUE.
- p\_segs defines the number of minimum segments on a parametric curve which will be recorded in the output file. 
The number of segments must be greater than zero and the default value is 10.
- do\_flush is a switch to flush (or not) the journal buffer after each line is written to it. 
Turning it off may increase performance - but note that in that case the resulting journal file might be incomplete. 
For debugging purposes it is useful to flush after every line, so that as much information as is available gets written to the journal, e.g. 
in the event of a crash.

The transmit files which are produced only include information which is known by the DCM. 
All lines are unbounded, and arcs will be complete circles. 
Dimensions will be positioned at a default location. 
Since the form of non-linear equations is not known by the DCM, they will be output in the form f(v1,v3,v7)=0, where v1, v3 and v7 are variables in the non-linear equation.

Note that the files produced in this way are only intended to assist with debugging an application. 
An application should not use these files as a way of storing data.

This function is mainly useful in early integration with example code. 
Use of this function is not recommended for production applications (even in debug mode): For most cases it is more useful to use the journal\_by\_ptr function to create journal files with embedded transmit files instead of using the stand-alone debug\_xmit function. 
The journal files will show the context of the model data and be more likely to reproduce issues when passed to D-Cubed Components support. 
The journal\_by\_ptr method also has the advantage that the application is in control of file system access.

### 16.14.3 journal\_by\_name - Write interface and Frustum calls to a named file

DCM\_logical journal\_by\_name( const char\* file\_name,

unsigned int opt = DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_ON \| DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_XMIT \|

     DCM\_JOU\_OPT\_XMIT\_START, int p\_segs = 10 );

This function is an alternative to the journal\_by\_ptr function. 
The difference is that in this case DCM is asked to perform the file opening and closing operations itself. 
In most cases, it is preferable to use the journal\_by\_ptr function since this gives an application full control over interactions with the filesystem and also allows access to the journal file to add its own comments. 
However, for certain platforms, journal\_by\_name may be preferable.

The function is used to start or stop the journalling of all DCM and Frustum calls to the specified file. 
When starting journaling an application may choose to configure the behaviour with a number of options. 
The file is specified by:

- The file name (including the path) file\_name. 
Note that with 2D DCM version 67 and later, DCM will use the file name exactly as specified. 
The application is responsible for ensuring that the file name and path given are writeable to the process containing DCM.

The variable opt is used to define options to the functions. 
See section [16.14.1.3 Journalling options](#_Ref498013836) for more details. 
Optionally the argument p\_segs can be used to change the default minimum number of segments on a parametric curve which will be recorded in the output file to approximate the customer’s curve. 
The function returns DCM\_TRUE if journalling is on as a result of the call and DCM\_FALSE if journalling is turned off by the call.

Each instance of the DCM has a separate journaling state: It is possible have multiple DCM instances and to be journaling only one of these at any given time, or to have each DCM journaling to a different journal file.

With journal\_by\_name it is not possible to have two DCM instances writing journaling information to the same file at once. 
If the function is called with a filename that is currently open for writing in another DCM instance, then DCM will still attempt to open the file as new; it cannot attempt to append as it has no knowledge of the other DCM instance. 
The result of this

Note that in older version of DCM (before version 68) journaling was a global state shared between all DCM instances in a single process. 
This is no longer the case (to ensure thread-safety).

It should be noted that it is possible (but not recommended) to start journaling with a call to one of journal\_by\_ptr / journal\_by\_name and then to stop it using a call to the other function – there is only one journaling state internal to a single DCM instance.

When using journal\_by\_name, the DCM stores a history of files that have been used for journalling during a single session (the lifetime of that DCM object/instance). If a file has not been used before in that session it will overwrite an existing file of the same name. 
However, if the file has been used in that session, the DCM will append the journalling information.

### 16.14.4 journal - Write all interface and Frustum calls and data to a file

DCM\_logical journal ( const char\* file = "dcm.jou" );

This function just journals the interactions but does not add any model data to the output. 
The default is the file dcm.jou in the current directory. 
This function has been superseded by journal\_by\_name and journal\_by\_ptr.

### 16.14.5 set\_label – Attach a text string to a DCM node

void set\_label(g\_node\* n, const char\* label);

void set\_label(d\_node\* n, const char\* label);

void set\_label(r\_node\* n, const char\* label);

void set\_label(v\_node\* n, const char\* label);

void set\_label(e\_node\* n, const char\* label);

void set\_label(p\_node\* n, const char\* label);

The set\_label functions allow the application to specify a text string which the DCM will store with the node. 
This string will be written out by the journal and debug\_xmit function. 
The string can be used to identify particular problem geometries or constraints when reporting issues to the technical support team.

For each function, the application should pass a pointer to a DCM node n and in label, one of:

- A pointer to a C-style string, to be used as a text label for the specified node
- A NULL pointer, to remove any label from the specified node.

For safety reasons, in v 74 and later DCM will copy and store a maximum of 256 characters for a node label, including the string terminator ‘\\0’.

If the application passes a pointer to a longer array, the stored string will be terminated with the 3 ‘.’ characters followed by the terminator ‘\\0’.

Similarly, if the application passes a pointer to an array that contains a control character, even if its length is less than 256, DCM will truncate it at the control character and substitute it with the terminator ‘\\0’.

Therefore, if using strings longer than 256 characters or containing control characters, the application might find that the labels stored in DCM are truncated with respect to the ones given as input.

Because of the importance of labels for debugging purposes, the first call for set\_label in the journal file will print out the complete string passed by the application as input, including control characters, with a much bigger upper limit of 2048 characters. 
The second call will instead print out the label stored in DCM. 
This allows full visibility on the truncation process, if it occurs.

