## 16.15 Miscellaneous functions

Other DCM functions not covered by one the above topics.

### 16.15.1 change\_pointer - Changes the pointer value passed to DCM

void change\_pointer( g\_node\* gn, void\* ag );

void change\_pointer( d\_node\* dn, void\* ad );

void change\_pointer( r\_node\* rn, void\* ad );

void change\_pointer( v\_node\* vn, void\* av );

void change\_pointer( e\_node\* en, void\* ae );

void change\_pointer( p\_node\* pn, void\* ap );

Informs the DCM of a different value for the pointer that will be used by the Frustum to make enquiries about application data. 
These functions are passed a pointer to a DCM node and the new application pointer value.

The functions allow an application to change the values of pointers stored within the DCM if the application data is relocated.

### 16.15.2 get\_version - Enquire the version number of the DCM

void get\_version(DCM\_version\_info\* vinfo)

Enquire the version details of the 2D DCM at run-time. 
This allows applications linking dynamically against 2D DCM to report the exact version being used instead of just the version against which the code was linked.

The application passes a pointer to a struct of type DCM\_version\_info which it has created. 
The following information is returned:

- major\_version – Major version number (integer), e.g. 
56.
- minor\_version – Minor version number (integer), zero for a major release. 
Non-zero values indicate a patch version of 2D DCM is in use.
- patch\_version – Patch version number (integer). Zero for a major release and the first version of a patch. 
Subsequently incremented by 1 with each new patch

One use of this function is for customer using both 2D DCM and PGM to check at run-time that they have loaded compatible versions, since the versions of these components should match exactly.

### 16.15.3 run\_single\_task - Run a task from a batch of parallel tasks

DCM\_task\_outcome run\_single\_task(DCM\_task\_manager\* task\_manager, int n);

This function should only be called from the Frustum function DCM\_run\_multiple\_tasks. 
This Frustum function will have passed a series of independent tasks and the application is expected to execute all the tasks, possibly in different threads, by calling this function.

The DCM will return one of:

- DCM\_TASK\_OUTCOME\_OK \- The task completed successfully
- DCM\_TASK\_OUTCOME\_INVALID \- The arguments provided are invalid, e.g. 
the task index is out of bounds.
- DCM\_TASK\_OUTCOME\_ABORTED \- This value is not supported in current version.

