## 16.12 Pre-evaluate checking of dimensions

The following function allows the application to check if a dimension may be applied to a model without over-defining the model.

### 16.12.1 check - Test if a dimension will become over-defined

DCM\_check\_result check( void\* ad, g\_node\* gn1, g\_node\* gn2 = DCM\_NULL,

    g\_node\* gn3 = DCM\_NULL, g\_node\* gn4 = DCM\_NULL );

The first argument is a pointer to an application dimension. 
The next four arguments are the g\_nodes to which the dimensions will be applied. 
For radius dimensions, only the first g\_node is required. 
Most dimension types require two g\_nodes. 
A symmetry or midpoint constraint requires three g\_nodes, and the axis of symmetry or midpoint is the third g\_node. 
An equal distance constraint requires four g\_nodes. 
Any other information regarding the dimension, e.g. 
the dimension type, is found via the Frustum.

This function is used to perform a quick check before adding a dimension or constraint to the model, to see if the model will become over-dimensioned. 
Using this will be faster than adding the dimension and calling evaluate. 
However, there are a few restrictions:

- No information is given about which dimensions conflict with the one being checked. 
If this information is required then it is necessary to add the dimension and then to evaluate the model.
- The checking will not take account of the ability of the DCM to solve over-constrained but consistent cases. 
The function will say that is not possible to add these constraints when in fact they can be added.
- The model must be in an "evaluated" state for the checking to be performed. 
This means that although several dimensions can be checked, only one of them can be added before the model must be evaluated again.
- Not all dimensions can be checked. 
The cases that cannot be checked remove more than a single degree of freedom. 
Specific cases that cannot be checked are:

\- A concentric constraint between any two geometries.

\- A coincidence constraint between two geometries of same type.

\- A distance dimension between two lines that are not parallel.

\- A symmetric constraint between any geometries except for two parallel lines.

\- Equal parameter constraints cannot be checked.



However, if the geometries are well-defined or fixed the check function will always return that the dimension cannot be added.
- Even if the checked dimension will not make the model over-defined it is still possible that no solution can be found because of the values of the dimensions.

The function will return one of the following:

- DCM\_CHECK\_POSSIBLE \- the given dimension can be added
- DCM\_CHECK\_UNKNOWN \- unable to check this dimension (see list above)
- DCM\_CHECK\_NOT\_POSSIBLE \- insufficient degrees of freedom to add dimension
- DCM\_CHECK\_NOT\_EVALUATED \- unable to check as model is not evaluated.

In alternative forms of this function, all the dimension data is passed as arguments to the function:

DCM\_check\_result check( DCM\_d\_type d, g\_node\* gn1,

    g\_node\* gn2 = DCM\_NULL,

     g\_node\* gn3 = DCM\_NULL, g\_node\* gn4 = DCM\_NULL );

The first argument to this check is the dimension type. 
The other arguments are the g\_nodes to which the dimension will be applied. 
For radius dimensions, only the first g\_node need be given. 
Most dimension types require two g\_nodes. 
A symmetry constraint requires three g\_nodes, where the axis of symmetry is the third g\_node and an equal-distance constraint requires four g\_nodes.

DCM\_check\_result check( g\_node\* gn1, g\_node\* gn2, double dir\[2\] );

This function is used to check a directed distance dimension between the two g\_nodes. 
The dimension is measured parallel to the direction specified in dir. 
The differences between these two functions and the one described above are that with these functions:

- It is not necessary to create an application dimension.
- Dimensions with help points cannot be checked.
- Distance dimensions to a parametric curve cannot be checked.

