## 16.11 Autodimensioning and autoconstraining

The DCM provides the following functions to autodimension or autoconstrain a model.

### 16.11.1 autoconstrain - Automatically generate constraints

DCM\_autocon\_result autoconstrain( DCM\_autocon\_options\* opts);

typedef struct DCM\_autocon\_options {

DCM\_autocon\_version  version;

double     tol\_lin;

double     tol\_ang;

unsigned int   constraint\_mask;

unsigned int   directed\_geometry\_mask;

DCM\_g\_node\_array   g\_from;  int  n\_from;

DCM\_g\_node\_array   g\_region;  int n\_region;

DCM\_g\_node\_array   g\_preferred;  int n\_preferred;

DCM\_g\_node\_array   g\_sym\_axes;  int n\_sym\_axes;

DCM\_g\_node\_array   g\_ed\_from;  int n\_ed\_from;

DCM\_g\_node\_array   g\_ed\_to;   int  n\_ed\_to;

DCM\_solving\_mode   solving\_mode;

DCM\_autocon\_check\_movement check\_movement\_level;

double     check\_movement\_tol\_lin;

double     check\_movement\_tol\_ang;

} DCM\_autocon\_options;

Instructs DCM to identify constraints that can be added to an under-constrained model. 
See section [13.1 Autoconstraining](13.1._Autoconstraining.md)

The behaviour of the autoconstrain function can be refined by setting DCM options via the set\_option function. 
The application can choose:

- Whether the DCM will supply help points for automatic constraints.
- How the DCM will generate equivalence classes for certain constraints.
- Whether the DCM will minimise or maximise the number of constraints identified.

The application must supply the following information:

- version \- The autoconstrain version.

Currently this option has two possible values, DCM\_AUTOCON\_VERSION\_1 and DCM\_AUTOCON\_VERSION\_2 . The first option will consider all directed geometries when using autoconstrain. 
The latter will enable the application to select the types of directed geometries to consider when applying parallel and perpendicular constraints, via the field directed\_geometry\_mask. 
This might update with further additions to DCM\_autocon\_options.

Settings required for version 1 and version 2:

- tol\_lin and tol\_ang \- A linear and an angular tolerance in radians. 
The DCM will only inform the application of constraints that are satisfied to within these tolerances. 
If the resolutions are too small, constraints may be missed. 
If the resolutions are too large, unnecessary constraints may be found.
- The type or types of constraints to search for (cons\_types). This is an integer which is the sum of the following values:

- DCM\_ACM\_IDENTICAL \- Add coincident constraints between geometries of the same type.
- DCM\_ACM\_SYMMETRIC \- Add symmetry constraints. 
In order to use this option the application must supply lines to the symmetry array (g\_sym\_axes).
- DCM\_ACM\_COINCIDENT \- Add coincident constraints between geometries of different types. 
Note that this does not include identicals.
- DCM\_ACM\_CONCENTRIC \- Add concentric constraints between points, circles and ellipses. 
Note that this will not identify concentricity between points only. 
At least one geometry must be a circle or ellipse.
- DCM\_ACM\_PARALLEL \- Add only parallel constraints between directed geometry.
- DCM\_ACM\_PERPENDICULAR \- Add perpendicular constraints between directed geometry.
- DCM\_ACM\_TANGENT \- Add tangent constraints.
- DCM\_ACM\_EQUAL\_RADIUS \- Add equal radius constraints between circles.
- DCM\_ACM\_NORMAL \- Add normal constraints.
- DCM\_ACM\_EQUAL\_DISTANCE \- Add equal distance constraints.
- DCM\_ACM\_ALL \- Add all possible constraints. 
Note that in order to find any symmetry constraints the symmetry array g\_sym\_axes must be supplied.

Settings required for version 2:

- If the option DCM\_AUTOCON\_VERSION\_2 is used, the application can specify the types of directed geometries that will be considered when autoconstrain is looking for parallel and perpendicular constraints.



This information is provided via an integer which is the sum of the following values:

- DCM\_AUTOCON\_DIRECTED\_GEOMETRY\_NONE \- No directed geometry is considered. 
Note this value is set to 0 and is provided for convenience.
- DCM\_AUTOCON\_DIRECTED\_GEOMETRY\_LINE \- Lines to be included in the set of candidate directed geometries.
- DCM\_AUTOCON\_DIRECTED\_GEOMETRY\_ELLIPSE \- Ellipses to be included in the set of candidate directed geometries.
- DCM\_AUTOCON\_DIRECTED\_GEOMETRY\_CONIC \- Conic curves to be included in the set of candidate directed geometries.
- DCM\_AUTOCON\_DIRECTED\_GEOMETRY\_SPLINE \- Splines to be included in the set of candidate directed geometries.
- DCM\_AUTOCON\_DIRECTED\_GEOMETRY\_PARAMETRIC \- Parametric curves to be included in the set of candidate directed geometries.
- DCM\_AUTOCON\_DIRECTED\_GEOMETRY\_LINEAR\_PATTERN \- Linear patterns to be included in the set of candidate directed geometries.
- DCM\_AUTOCON\_DIRECTED\_GEOMETRY\_ALL \- all types of directed geometries are considered. 
This is simply a sum of all the other enum values, as a convenient way to set all the bits.

Note that, to avoid operating on uninitialized data, DCM treat any value of directed\_geometry\_mask outside of the valid range as DCM\_AUTOCON\_DIRECTED\_ALL, giving compatibility with earlier DCM versions.

- solving\_mode \- The application can provide the solving mode used during autoconstrain.



The default solving mode is DCM\_STANDARD\_SOLVE. 
In general, standard solving is recommended unless the application is using the check-movement functionality, since this will be most efficient. 
When using check-movement, the mode used should match what the application will use to evaluate the model after the autoconstrain. 
If a different solving mode is used, there is no guarantee that the model will solve without exceeding the defined movement limits.



Note that the previous version of autoconstrain used the solving mode of the most recent evaluation (or standard solving if there had been no previous solve). It is recommended that legacy models provide the solving mode of their most recent evaluation to avoid changes in behaviour.
- The check\_movement\_level value provides the application with an option to allow the autoconstrain algorithm to internally reject constraints that will result in geometry movements which are too large.

- DCM\_AUTOCON\_CHECK\_MOVEMENT\_LEVEL\_1 enables movement checking.
- DCM\_AUTOCON\_CHECK\_MOVEMENT\_OFF disables movement checking.

- If the DCM\_AUTOCON\_CHECK\_MOVEMENT\_LEVEL\_1 option is selected then the application must provide the following two values:

- movement\_tol\_lin: a value used to test linear movements. 
If it has a value of less than the current linear resolution it will not be used (that is, no linear movement tests will be done).
- movement\_tol\_ang: a value used to test angular movements. 
If it has a value of less than the current angular resolution it will not be used (that is, no angle tests will be done).

Optional inputs for all versions:

The application should also pass up to six arrays of geometry, and integers that give the length of the array. 
These provide further control over which constraints are applied. 
If these are not required the array must be passed as NULL and the corresponding integer set to zero. 
The arrays are used as follows:

- g\_from \- An array of geometry and sets to which other geometry should be constrained. 
The only constraints which will be added are to one of these geometries. 
This array may include sets and this is equivalent to adding all geometry in that set to the array. 
Note that the order of this array will affect the representative equivalence class member used for autoconstraining.
- g\_region \- An array of geometry that may be constrained by the function. 
This array may include sets and this is equivalent to adding all geometry in that set to the array.
- g\_preferred \- An array of geometry that indicates the preferred order in which geometry should be considered for constraining. 
The function will tend to constrain geometry preferentially depending on its position in this array, with constraints between earlier elements more likely than between later elements or elements and non-array elements.
- g\_sym\_axes \- An array of lines that are candidates for symmetry axes. 
Symmetry constraints will only be found about these axes.
- g\_ed\_from and g\_ed\_to \- Arrays of geometries which are candidates for adding equal distance constraints. 
The geometries are considered in pairs within each array, e.g. 
g\_ed\_to = (line1.start, line1.end, line2.start, line2.end,…) and the distances between each pair are considered.



The g\_ed\_from array is equivalent to the g\_from array for regular constraints. 
This array is optional, but if specified then any equal distance constraint found must have one pair within this array.



The g\_ed\_to array is equivalent to the g\_region array for regular constraints. 
This array must be present if constraining equal distances. 
Constraints will only be identified between pairs that were listed in this array.

The function returns one of the following:

- DCM\_ AUTOCON \_SUCCEEDED – The function completed successfully.
- DCM\_ AUTOCON \_ABORTED – The function was interrupted via the [DCM\_abort\_dcm](17.12._Miscellaneous_functions.md)
If autoconstrain is aborted, then the DCM model will not be in an evaluated state. 
Some constraints may have been suggested via the Frustum during the call so the application should determine whether it needs to erase any constraints it has added.
- DCM\_AUTOCON\_FAILED\_PGM – This code will only be returned when using the PGM component. 
It indicates that the application has given an invalid model to PGM. 
In this case no constraints will have been suggested via the Frustum.

Note that the function name for the C interface is DCM\_autoconstrain2 – this is also the name used when journalling the function. 
The DCM\_autoconstrain function in the C interface is deprecated.

#### 16.11.1.1 autoconstrain – deprecated

DCM\_autocon\_result autoconstrain(double tol\_lin, double tol\_ang, int mask,

g\_node\*\* g\_from, int n\_from,

g\_node\*\* g\_region, int n\_region,

g\_node\*\* g\_preferred, int n\_preferred,

g\_node\*\* g\_sym\_axes, int n\_sym\_axes,

g\_node\*\* g\_ed\_from = DCM\_NULL, int n\_ed\_from = 0,

g\_node\*\* g\_ed\_to = DCM\_NULL, int n\_ed\_to = 0);

This is the original format of the autoconstrain function. 
This interface is deprecated, since it does not provide access to many of the current features of autoconstrain. 
The meanings of the arguments are the same as for the struct-based function documented above.

This function is named DCM\_autoconstrain in the C interface.

### 16.11.2 autodimension – Automatically generate dimensions

DCM\_autodim\_status autodimension (DCM\_autodim\_options\* opts)

typedef struct DCM\_autodim\_options{

DCM\_autodim\_version   version;

DCM\_autodim\_block\_singular  block singular;

}

Instructs the DCM to define dimensions that can be added to an under-constrained model, optionally excluding those producing singular dimensioning schemes.

This new (introduced in version 68.0) autodimension function offers two modes of operation to the application. 
One mode uses an improved algorithm, capable of rejecting candidate dimensions which would increase the degree of singularity of the model. 
The other mode uses the old autodimension algorithm, and will not prevent singular configurations from arising. 
This second mode guarantees backwards compatibility, as it will behave exactly like the deprecated function described in [16.11.2.1 autodimension - deprecated](#_Ref498363220).

The application can select the mode of operation by setting the values of the structure opts. 
Both fields in this structure have to be initialized, as there is not currently a defined default behaviour:

- version – the autodimension version.

Currently it can only take the value DCM\_AUTODIM\_VERSION\_1.
- block\_singular – this variable determines which of the autodimension algorithms will be used.

The value DCM\_AUTODIM\_BLOCK\_SINGULAR\_LEVEL\_1 allows to use the NEW algorithm, with singular detection capability. 
The value DCM\_AUTODIM\_BLOCK\_SINGULAR\_OFF switches to the OLD algorithm instead, and can allow singular dimensioning schemes.

The DCM will inform the application which dimensions to apply by calling the Frustum functions DCM\_automatic\_dimension and DCM\_automatic\_directed\_dimension. 
When these functions are called, the application should add the dimension using add\_d or add\_r. 
Full details of the Frustum functions are given below.

There are several ways in which the application can influence which dimensions are added to the model:

- If the DCM is set so that it will solve points, lines and circles algebraically, the resulting dimension scheme will be algebraic.
- The application can use the function add\_autodimension\_mask to specify which classes of dimensions to include. 
If this function is not called, the DCM will consider all possible dimensions except for directed distance dimensions. 
Full details of this function are given in [16.11.3 add\_autodimension\_mask - Select autodimension options](#_Ref498098814).
- In order to choose between a number of possible dimensions, the DCM will ask the application for a weight for a particular dimension. 
Each weight is given as a real value, and the DCM will put on the dimension with the highest weight first. 
A weight of less than zero will mean that the DCM will not attempt to apply this dimension. 
If dimensions are given equal weights the DCM will use a built-in algorithm to decide the order that they should be tried. 
Weights are found by calls to the Frustum function DCM\_autodim\_weight.
- When the DCM calls the Frustum functions DCM\_automatic\_dimension and DCM\_automatic\_directed\_dimension, it is possible for the application to return without applying the dimension. 
The DCM will continue to add dimensions to the model.
- In common with other time-consuming functions, the function [DCM\_abort\_dcm](17.12._Miscellaneous_functions.md)
It is possible for the application to return DCM\_TRUE to abort the operation. 
Note that any dimensions already added to the model will not be affected by this.

The autodimension function returns one of the following:

- DCM\_AUTODIM\_NOT\_EVALUATED \- This indicates that the model is not in an evaluated state. 
It is necessary to call the function evaluate before calling autodimension.
- DCM\_AUTODIM\_ABORTED \- This indicates that the application aborted the call by returning DCM\_TRUE when [DCM\_abort\_dcm](17.12._Miscellaneous_functions.md)
- DCM\_AUTODIM\_COMPLETED \- This indicates that the call completed successfully.

The new autodimension singular detection capability takes advantage of non-algebraic solving, and therefore can negatively affect performance when compared to the OLD autoconstrain. 
Moreover, the singular diagnostic results are not cached, so they will be completely re-computed for each candidate dimension. 
The NEW autodimension function guarantees backwards compatibility via setting DCM\_AUTODIM\_BLOCK\_SINGULAR\_OFF, so it is adivised that applications integrate this new interface even if they don’t plan on using the singular detection capability.

This function is named DCM\_autodimension2 in the C interface, and journalled as autodimension2.

#### 16.11.2.1 autodimension - deprecated

DCM\_autodimension\_status autodimension ();

Instructs the DCM to define dimensions that can be added to an under-constrained model.

This function has one single mode of operation, which corresponds to the behaviour of the new (introduced in version 68.0) autodimension in [16.11.2 autodimension – Automatically generate dimensions](#_Ref497134785) when the singular detection capability is not enabled. 
It relies on the same Frustum functions and the applications can influence the choice of dimensions to add with the function add\_autodimension\_mask, in the way explained in [16.11.3 add\_autodimension\_mask - Select autodimension options](#_Ref498098814). This deprecated interface will not prevent singular configurations from arising.

This function is named DCM\_autodimension in the C interface.

### 16.11.3 add\_autodimension\_mask - Select autodimension options

void add\_autodimension\_mask(

DCM\_autodim\_g\_type g1t, DCM\_autodim\_g\_type g2t,

DCM\_autodim\_d\_type dt,

DCM\_autodim\_mask\_option mo,

int n\_gnodes = 0, g\_node\*\* g\_array1 = DCM\_NULL,

g\_node\*\* g\_array2 = DCM\_NULL,

double dir\[2\] = DCM\_NULL, g\_node\* gdir = DCM\_NULL );

This function is used to inform the application which classes of dimension should be considered when the function autodimension is called. 
Note that if this function is not called, all possible dimensions will be considered except for directed distance dimensions. 
If this function is called, only those classes of dimensions specified will be considered. 
If the function is called more than once the results are cumulative. 
All stored information is reset after each call to autodimension.

The classes of dimension to consider can be specified as follows:

- Geometry types



It is possible to consider only those dimensions that are attached to specific geometry types. 
The arguments g1t and g2t are used for this, and can be given values of DCM\_ADG\_POINT, DCM\_ADG\_LINE, DCM\_ADG\_CIRCLE, DCM\_ADG\_ELLIPSE,DCM\_ADG\_PARAMETRIC, DCM\_ADG\_SPLINE, DCM\_ADG\_CONIC or DCM\_ADG\_ALL. 
The last of these codes is used to inform the DCM that dimensions should be applied to all geometry types.
- Dimension types



The following values can be given to the argument dt to specify which types of dimension to consider:



DCM\_ADD\_DISTANCE    \- distance, but not directed distance

DCM\_ADD\_ANGLE    \- angle

DCM\_ADD\_RADIUS    \- radius

DCM\_ADD\_MAJOR\_RADIUS   \- major radius

DCM\_ADD\_MINOR\_RADIUS   \- minor radius

DCM\_ADD\_RADII      \- radius, major radius and minor radius

DCM\_ADD\_DIRECTED\_PARALLEL   \- directed distance parallel to line or direction

DCM\_ADD\_DIRECTED\_PERPENDICULAR  \- directed distance perpendicular to line or direction

DCM\_ADD\_ALL      \- distance, angle and radii but not directed



If one of the directed distance options is used it is also necessary to specify a value for dir (a vector giving the direction) or gdir (a geometry).



Note that help points will be created for all dimensions to circles and ellipses.

Mask option

The mask options are used to indicate the type of dimensioning to use. 
For some options, it is necessary to give more information. 
This information is in two arrays (g\_array1 and g\_array2) with an integer to give the length of the array or arrays (n\_gnodes). The following options can be used:

DCM\_ADM\_ALL \- Add all possible dimensions. 
No further information is necessary.

DCM\_ADM\_SYMMETRIC\_PAIRS \- Add dimensions between pairs of geometries that have a symmetry constraint applied between them and an axis. 
Note that this is only relevant for distance and angle dimensions. 
No further information is necessary.

DCM\_ADM\_FROM\_G \- For radii, only specified geometries will be dimensioned. 
For distances and angles, each dimension must have at least one of the specified geometries at its end. 
Requires a single array of geometry nodes.

DCM\_ADM\_INTER\_G \- Dimensions are only applied to the given geometries. 
Requires a single array of geometry nodes.

DCM\_ADM\_FROM\_SYMMETRY\_AXES \- Distance or angle dimensions are applied between one or more symmetry axes and geometry that is symmetric about that axis. 
Can optionally be passed a single array of axes. 
If no array is passed all symmetry axes will be used.

DCM\_ADM\_BETWEEN\_PAIRS \- Distance or angle dimensions are applied only between corresponding pairs of geometry in the arrays. 
Requires two arrays of geometries

### 16.11.4 deduce\_constraints - Find constraints implied by geometry

int deduce\_constraints( double tol\_lin, double tol\_ang, DCM\_d\_type dt );

int deduce\_constraints( double tol\_lin, double tol\_ang, DCM\_d\_type dt,

g\_node\* gn );

int deduce\_constraints( double tol\_lin, double tol\_ang, DCM\_d\_type dt,

g\_node\* gn1, g\_node\* gn2 );

int deduce\_constraints( double tol\_lin, double tol\_ang, DCM\_d\_type dt,

g\_node\* gmid, g\_node\* gn1, g\_node\* gn2 );

int deduce\_constraints( double tol\_lin, double tol\_ang, DCM\_d\_type dt,

g\_node\* gn1, g\_node\* gn2, g\_node\* gn3, g\_node\* gn4 );

Instructs the DCM to search for constraints that are implied by the position of the geometry. 
Note that it is recommended that the autoconstrain function be used instead of deduce\_constraints. 
See section [13.3 Constraint deduction](13.3._Constraint_deduction.md)

Constraints are found purely on the basis of the geometry currently defined to the DCM and the results are not affected by any constraints that have been applied.

The deduce\_constraints function takes two double values to specify the linear (tol\_lin) and angular (tol\_ang) tolerances to be used when searching. 
A constraint will be deduced if it is satisfied to within these values. 
The application also specifies the type of constraint to search for. 
Note that the constraint type DCM\_IDENTICAL must be used to search for coincident geometries of the same type. 
Note also that the constraint type DCM\_IDENTICAL is only used in conjunction with the deduce\_constraints and autoconstrain functions.

It is also possible to give up to four geometry nodes when calling this function. 
The behaviour of the function depends upon the type of constraint and the number of geometry nodes given. 
The following list describes what combinations are possible, and their effect.

For constraints which act between two geometries:

- If no geometries are given all possible constraints of the specified type are output. 
Note that this is the only circumstance in which equivalence classes are output.
- If one geometry is given, specific constraints of the specified type that act on this geometry are output.
- If two geometries are given, the DCM will only search for a constraint of the specified type between the two geometries.

For constraints which act between three geometries (i.e. 
midpoint or symmetry - pattern constraints are not currently supported):

- If one geometry is given, this will be taken as the midpoint or symmetry axis. 
Constraints of the appropriate type will be found onto this geometry.
- If two geometries are given, the first one will be taken as the midpoint or symmetry axis. 
Constraints of the appropriate type will be found onto this geometry and the second geometry.
- If three geometries are given, the first one will be taken as the midpoint or symmetry axis. 
Constraints of the appropriate type will be checked for between the three geometries.

For constraints which act between four geometries (i.e. 
equal distance):

- If two geometries are given, other pairs of geometries will be found which have the same distance between them.
- If four geometries are given, an equal distance constraint will be checked for between them.

Combinations other than those described above are not permitted. 
For example, it is not permitted to pass three geometries with an equal distance constraint.

Constraints are output using the Frustum functions DCM\_deduced\_class and DCM\_deduced\_constraint. 
These functions are described below.

The deduce\_constraints function returns an integer. 
When the function has been called with the argument DCM\_IDENTICAL, DCM\_PARALLEL, DCM\_CONCENTRIC or DCM\_EQUAL\_RADIUS this is the number of equivalence classes found. 
For other arguments this is the number of specific constraints found. 
When using the deduce\_constraints function, it is important to use an appropriate search order. 
In particular, parallel constraints should be found before searching for coincident constraints. 
Also, the equivalence classes found by one deduce\_constraints call will influence those found by the next, e.g. 
for a square, only one perpendicular constraint will be returned, representing that between the horizontal equivalence class and the vertical one.

Note that the function cannot be used to search for equal parameter constraints.

Further details about constraint deduction can be found in chapters [2\. Fundamental DCM Concepts](2._Fundamental_DCM_Concepts.md)

