## 16.1 Constructing and deleting a dimension system

The following section describes functions used to start and stop a dimension system or to control the behaviour of other functions.

### 16.1.1 dimension\_system - Creates and initialises a dimension system

dimension\_system( void\* ap=DCM\_NULL );

dimension\_system( double res\_linear, double size, void\* ap=DCM\_NULL );

The DCM is initialised by declaring an instance of the class dimension\_system. 
In C++ this defines a dimension\_system structure and initialises it. 
Subsequently, the member functions of the dimension\_system can be used to interact with the DCM. 
The available functions are described below.

Note that the application can use several instances of this class simultaneously (for example to represent different planes in three dimensional space). See section [16.1.5 Multiple DCM instances](#_Ref519601359)  for more information.

The application can pass a pointer value ap when a dimension\_system is created. 
If this is done, the DCM will set the external variable DCM\_application\_pointer to this pointer value whenever this particular dimension\_system has been called by the application. 
If more than one dimension\_system has been created the application can read the value of the external variable whenever a Frustum function is called to determine which dimension\_system has been called. 
If no pointer value is passed, the external variable will be set to the value of the dimension\_system pointer.

The declaration can, if necessary, be made with arguments specifying the linear resolution and size box. 
These are unitless values. 
Units are imposed by the application. 
Linear resolution is the distance at which two points are regarded as coincident. 
Linear resolution divided by size gives the tangent of the angle at which two lines are regarded as parallel. 
The default values are 1.0E-8 for resolution and 1.0E+3 for size. 
The default angular resolution is therefore 1.0E-11 radians.

Note that DCM will check the input resolutions values and if they appear to be invalid data, it will use the default values instead instead of throwing an exception from the constructor. 
Should this happen, a call will be made to the DCM\_debug\_message Frustum function at the earliest opportunity, typically when the Frustum functions are first registered, to inform the application. 
There will also be a warning written to any journal file created from such a DCM. 
Due to this checking, the maximum supported size value for DCM is currently 1E+10 units; customers wishing to work with models of very large size will need to adopt a suitable unit value when loading data into DCM.

See section [2.5.2 Resolution and accuracy](2.5._Evaluating_the_model.md)

### 16.1.2 ~dimension\_system - Erases a dimension system

~dimension\_system();

This function is the C++ destructor for the class dimension\_system. 
This function is called implicitly when an instance of class dimension\_system goes out of scope, or the application can call it explicitly by deleting an instance of the DCM. 
The effect of the call is to erase all of the internal DCM structure, and then to erase the DCM itself. 
Subsequently, any attempt to call a DCM function for this instance of the class dimension\_system will lead to failures.

### 16.1.3 Registering Frustum functions

The DCM shares the model data with the application and communicates with the application via a set of functions known as the Frustum interface. 
The functions are defined in the Frustum header file delivered with the system.

DCM\_logical register\_frustum\_functions( DCM\_frustum\_functions\* af );

The return value is DCM\_TRUE if this is successful. 
Currently only an evaluation version of DCM can return DCM\_FALSE (if the license is out of date). In future additional checking may be introduced.

It is not necessary for the application to code and register all the Frustum functions in this structure. 
In particular:

- Some Frustum functions will never be called, e.g. 
the functions for inquiring the equations data are not required if equations will not be added to the DCM.
- Some functions are optional, e.g. 
DCM\_erased\_node informs the application that a node is about to be erased but an application may not need this information.
- The DCM can sometimes use defaults, e.g. 
if the DCM\_resolve\_zero\_diamond function is not available, the DCM will use the default value.

The application can enquire the functions already registered by calling the following function:

void enquire\_frustum\_functions( DCM\_frustum\_functions\* af );

It is recommended that this is called before any functions are registered to initialise all the members of the structure af to NULL. 
The application should fill in the address of its own functions in this structure before registering them.

The DCM will call the Frustum function DCM\_debug\_message (if registered) if it attempts to call a Frustum function that has not been registered by the application and there is no default defined (see section [17.12.5 DCM\_integration\_debug\_message – Output a debug message](17.12._Miscellaneous_functions.md)

### 16.1.4 Registering maths frustum functions

The DCM allows an application to register external maths functions via a maths frustum function. 
This registration is analogous to the registration of application functions via the main DCM frustum. 
These functions will optionally be called by the DCM to solve large matrix mathematics operations more efficiently than the DCM can do internally.

If the application does not register these functions, the DCM will use the pre-existing DCM maths functions as before. 
If the application is to use external maths libraries, then all the specified functions (a total of three for this version) must be registered. 
If one or more are not registered, then the pre-existing DCM maths functions will be used.

DCM\_logical register\_maths\_frustum\_functions( DCM\_maths\_frustum\_functions\* mf );

The application provides a pointer to a struct, mf, containing the addresses of the functions which implement the standard LAPACK functions, plus an optional function to provide a version of the implementation being used.

typedef struct DCM\_maths\_frustum\_functions

{

DCM\_dgels\_function     dgels;

DCM\_dgesdd\_function   dgesdd;

DCM\_dgesv\_function     dgesv;

DCM\_maths\_get\_version\_function  maths\_get\_version;

} DCM\_maths\_frustum\_functions;

The application can initialise the struct used in this function via the enquiry function:

DCM\_logical enquire\_maths\_frustum\_functions( DCM\_maths\_frustum\_functions\* mf );

For a new 2D DCM object, this will set all the struct values to NULL. 
If the application has previously registered frustum functions, DCM will set the values of the struct passed in to the values that were previously registered. 
It is recommended that the application always call this enquiry function to initialise the struct, before assigning the values to those defined by the application, since this will ensure any future additional function pointers added have valid values, without requiring a change in application code when a new version of 2D DCM is integrated.

See section [17.11 Functions for external maths libraries](17.11._Functions_for_external_maths_libraries.md)

### 16.1.5 Multiple DCM instances

The 2D DCM is implemented as a class which can have multiple instances (dimension\_system objects). This design means it is possible for an application to create and maintain distinct DCM instances concurrently for different purposes. 
For example, an application may have several sketches that are used to define a 3D shape. 
It is possible to have DCM instance for each of these sketches, so that they can be solved independently, and to keep all of these instances in memory persistently.

The standard DCM libraries are now threadsafe; it is no longer necessary to use a separate build when using multithreaded applications. 
This means that it is possible for an application to run multiple DCM instances in parallel, with instances operating in different threads. 
However, each instance must be used by only one thread – it is not possible for multiple threads to access the same DCM instance.

An application must observe the following rules when running multiple DCMs:

- The application must not pass a DCM pointer (e.g. 
g\_node pointer) from one DCM instance to another DCM instance.
- When the application is running the DCM in a single-threaded environment, the DCM instance calling a Frustum function can be identified via the global variable DCM\_application\_pointer. 
However, when the application is running the DCM in a multi-threaded environment, the DCM\_application\_pointer is not used. 
Therefore, in these circumstances an alternative method must be used to identify the DCM instance. 
For all current Frustum functions, the DCM instance can be determined from the application objects passed in via the Frustum call. 
Functions that passed no context pointer are deprecated and replacement versions are available.
- The standard build of the PGM (Profile Geometry Manager) component is not threadsafe. 
Therefore a special threadsafe version of that component is shipped in the form of alternative libraries. 
That PGM build requires a special 2D DCM build; it cannot be used with the standard 2D DCM build.

Note, the thread registration functions required in earlier versions of the threadsafe libraries are no longer required. 
They remain in the interface, but will have no effect when called. 
These are the functions DCM\_register\_thread and DCM\_unregister\_thread.

