## 16.3 Defining the model data

This section describes functions used to add or erase model data.

### 16.3.1 add\_g - Creates a geometry node in the DCM

g\_node\* add\_g( void\* ag );

Takes a pointer to an application geometry node and returns the pointer to the new DCM geometry node. 
add\_g is also used to add rigid sets to the DCM.

Note that the DCM may call Frustum functions to enquire about the geometry during the call to add\_g. 
Hence the application must initialise its data before calling this function.

### 16.3.2 add\_offset\_g - Creates an offset to a parametric or an ellipse

g\_node\* add\_offset\_g( void\* off\_g, g\_node parent\_gn );

Takes a pointer to an application geometry node and a g\_node that must be a parametric curve (DCM\_PARAMETRIC, DCM\_CONIC, DCM\_SPLINE), an ellipse or another offset curve. 
The DCM returns the pointer to a new geometry node representing the offset geometry.

### 16.3.3 add\_copy\_g - Creates a copy of a parametric or offset

g\_node\* add\_copy\_g( void\* copy\_g, g\_node parent\_gn );

Takes a pointer to an application geometry node and a g\_node that must be a parametric curve: (DCM\_PARAMETRIC, DCM\_SPLINE, DCM\_CONIC or an offset curve. 
The DCM returns the pointer to a new geometry node representing the copy geometry.

Attempts to create a copy g\_node from an unsupported geometry type (including point, line, circle, ellipse, sets, pattern and relative transform nodes or PGM g\_nodes) will be ignored - the function will return DCM\_NULL.

### 16.3.4 add\_r and add\_d - Creates a dimension node

r\_node\* add\_r( void\* ad, g\_node\* gn );

d\_node\* add\_d( void\* ad, g\_node\* gn1, g\_node\* gn2 );

d\_node\* add\_d( void\* ad, g\_node\* gn1, g\_node\* gn2, g\_node\* gmid );

d\_node\* add\_d( void\* ad, g\_node\* gn1, g\_node\* gn2, g\_node\* gn3, g\_node\* gn4);

d\_node\* add\_d( void\* ad, p\_node\* pn1, p\_node\* pn2 );

d\_node\* add\_d( void\* ad, g\_node\* gn, v\_node\* vn );

See chapter [2\. Fundamental DCM Concepts](2._Fundamental_DCM_Concepts.md)
add\_d is used for most dimensions, add\_r is used for dimensions which apply to just one geometry node such as locking, radius and pattern value dimensions.

The first form of add\_d takes a pointer to an application dimension node and the two relevant DCM geometry nodes and returns the new DCM dimension node (d\_node). Note that in most cases the two geometry nodes must be different. 
The only exceptions are that curve length and equal curve property constraints may be defined with two identical g\_nodes, indicating that two locations of the same parametric curve share the same property.

The order of the two geometry nodes is irrelevant except for angular dimensions, signed directed distances, pattern constraints and dependence constraints. 
For a dependence constraint the first geometry must be a parametric which depends upon the second geometry.

The second form of add\_d takes three DCM geometry nodes and is used to create an arc length dimension or a symmetry, midpoint, pattern or equal relative transform constraint.

- For a symmetry constraint, the third node must be a line (which will be the symmetry axis) and the other two nodes must be of the same type. 
See section [7.2.3 Symmetric, coincident, patterned and equal relative transform](7.2._Dimensions_and_constraints_to_parametric_curves.md)
- For a midpoint constraint, the third node must be a point and the other two nodes must both be either points or lines.
- For an arc length constraint, the first two nodes must be points and the third node must be a circle. 
Note that to construct a valid arc length dimension, the DCM requires that the points are coincident to the circle, otherwise the DCM will mark the constraint as over-defined. 
One of the following conditions must be met for each point:

- The point is constrained with a DCM\_COINCIDENT constraint to the circle.
- The point and circle are both fixed and the point is geometrically coincident to the circle.
- The point and circle are both within the same DCM rigid set and the point is geometrically coincident to the circle.

- For a 1D or 2D pattern constraint, or an equal relative transform constraint, the third node is the reference node that is created by a call to the corresponding creation function (add\_pattern or add\_pattern\_2d or add\_relative\_transform) and the other two nodes must be of the same type or a copy g\_node and its parent or another copy g\_node. 
The order of the nodes is important for these constraint types.
- For a 2D pattern constraint, the DCM will return a NULL pointer if the pattern constraint would combine with existing constraints to the same pattern reference nodes to create a chain of reference instance pairs. 
This will only be the case if a g\_node is used as gn1 for of one add\_d call and as gn2 in another add\_d call for the same pattern (gmid).

The third form of add\_d is used to add an equal distance constraint. 
The distance between the nodes gn1 and gn2 will be made the same as the distance between the nodes gn3 and gn4. All four geometries must either be points, lines or circles. 
See [2\. Fundamental DCM Concepts](2._Fundamental_DCM_Concepts.md)

The fourth form of add\_d is used to add an equal parameter constraint between two p\_nodes. 
Note that the p\_nodes must be created using the function parameter\_node and both p\_nodes must be associated with the same geometry.

The fifth form of add\_d is used to add a dependence constraint between a variable and a parametric.

add\_r takes a pointer to an application dimension node and the relevant DCM geometry node and returns an r\_node. 
An r\_node can be either a dimension that controls the value of an internal freedom of the geometry (i.e. 
the radius of circles and ellipses or the dimension value of patterns) or a lock constraint, which has no associated value. 
Note that the add\_d function is used for an equal radius constraint as this is applied between two geometries.

If the type of the dimension is inappropriate for the geometry or geometries, the functions will return a null pointer value. 
The types DCM\_IDENTICAL and DCM\_OFFSET are used only for outputting data and cannot be used in conjunction with the add\_d and add\_r functions.

Geometry nodes that are sets should not be passed to add\_d. 
Geometry nodes which are sets can be passed to add\_r if the dimension that will be added is a lock constraint that locks the whole set or its direction.

Note that it is possible to use the same value of ad for several calls to these functions. 
This could be used to avoid creating new application data for each instance of a coincident constraint in a model. 
However, if this is done it will not be possible to distinguish the different nodes when the Frustum is called.

The comments made for add\_g regarding calls to the Frustum also apply to these functions.

### 16.3.5 fix - Fixes a geometry node in the DCM

void fix( g\_node\* gn );

Takes a pointer to a geometry node in the DCM and fixes it if currently free or frozen, or makes it free it if currently fixed. 
Fixed geometry is only altered by the DCM if it is explicitly given in a call to the dynamic\_evaluate or move\_and\_evaluate functions. 
Fixed geometry is useful if any of the design is specified in absolute co-ordinates. 
It is also necessary if you wish to remove the rigid body motions (see section [2.3 Degrees of freedom](2.3._Degrees_of_freedom.md)

Note that the status of a fixed g\_node is always G\_FIXED, regardless of whether the model has been evaluated. 
If a fixed g\_node is made free, its status will be G\_UNKNOWN until after the model has been evaluated.

A set can also be fixed. 
This is equivalent to fixing all of the geometry in the set. 
Patterns cannot be fixed.

### 16.3.6 fix - Fixes a p\_node in the DCM

void fix( p\_node\* pn );

A p\_node is associated with a dimension and a geometry (parametric or ellipse) constrained by the dimension. 
It is returned by calling the DCM function parameter\_node.

If the geometry is a parametric, fixing the p\_node will 'fix' the help parameter. 
The DCM will not change the help parameter of a fixed p\_node.

A p\_node to an ellipse can only be fixed if there is an associated help point to the ellipse. 
When a p\_node to an ellipse is fixed, the DCM will update the position of the help point, if necessary, so that it is exactly on the ellipse. 
Subsequently, the DCM will not allow the help point to move around the ellipse when the model is evaluated.

Fixing a p\_node on either a parametric curve or an ellipse will remove the degree of freedom that allows the solution to move along the curve when the model is evaluated.

Note that if the value of a fixed p\_node is changed, the application must perform a full evaluate so that the new value can be updated in the DCM. 
It is recommended that any modifications to the value of a fixed help parameter should be followed immediately by a call to reset in order to force a full evaluate even if re\_evaluate or dynamic\_evaluate is next called.

### 16.3.7 freeze - Freezes a geometry node in the DCM

void freeze( g\_node\* gn );

Takes a pointer to a geometry node in the DCM and makes it frozen it if currently free or fixed, or makes it free it if currently frozen. 
The DCM only alters frozen geometry if it is explicitly given in a call to the dynamic\_evaluate or move\_and\_evaluate functions.

Frozen geometry has some similarities and some differences to fixed geometry. 
See chapter [6\. Fixed, Frozen and Free Geometry](6._Fixed,_Frozen_and_Free_Geometry.md)

Note that the status of a frozen g\_node is always G\_FROZEN, regardless of whether the model has been evaluated. 
If a frozen g\_node is made free, its status will be G\_UNKNOWN until after the model has been evaluated.

### 16.3.8 add\_pattern - Add a reference node for a 1D pattern

g\_node\* add\_pattern( void\* ag, g\_node\* gnpat );

Called with an application pointer which refers to the pattern (ag) and a pointer to a geometry (gnpat). The geometry will be a line (for a linear pattern) or a circle or point (for an angular pattern). Returns a pointer to the new DCM 1D pattern reference node (which is represented as a geometry).

Note that the pointer ag is only used by the DCM to call the Frustum functions DCM\_g\_status, DCM\_pattern\_value\_update and DCM\_pattern\_start\_value. 
The function DCM\_g\_identify is not called for pattern reference nodes.

### 16.3.9 add\_pattern\_2d – Add a reference node for a 2D pattern.

g\_node\* add\_pattern\_2d(void\* g, g\_node\* gnpat1, g\_node\* gnpat2);

Called with an application pointer which refers to the pattern (ag) and pointers to geometry that define the pattern directions (gnpat1 and gnpat2). These geometries must be of type DCM\_LINE. 
Returns a pointer to the new DCM 2D pattern reference node (which is represented as a geometry).

Note that the pointer ag is only used by the DCM to call the Frustum functions DCM\_g\_status, DCM\_pattern\_2d\_value\_update and DCM\_pattern\_2d\_start\_value. 
The function DCM\_g\_identify is not called for pattern reference nodes.

### 16.3.10 add\_relative\_transform – Add a reference node for instances

g\_node\* add\_relative\_transform(void\* ag);

Creates a container g\_node that will be used to link together two sets of identical pairs of geometry into an equal relative transform relationship, such that one group may be considered an "instance" of the other.

The relative transform node is analogous to the line of symmetry in a symmetrical relationship. 
The g\_node provided will be used as the third g\_node in calls to add\_d when adding DCM\_EQUAL\_RELATIVE\_TRANSFORM constraints.

Like a rigid set, the relative transform has three degrees of freedom, consistent of the angle of rotation and the offset translations of the transform. 
These degrees of freedom can be removed by adding constraints between geometries in the two groups of identical pairs of geometry.

The relative transform g\_node has no physical location, but it does have an associated transform. 
This transform will be enquired by DCM at the start of a solve (via DCM\_relative\_transform\_transform Frustum function) and output at the end (via DCM\_transform). It can also be enquired by the application via the transform function.

The relative transform g\_node may be fixed using the fix function, in which case the degrees of freedom are all removed and the DCM will ensure that the transform between linked geometry is that specified via DCM\_relative\_transform\_transform. 
The Frustum function DCM\_transform\_bias is called for this g\_node (if it is not fixed) which allows finer control over whether an under-defined model should solve by changing the transform between instances, or by changing the positions of the geometry within instances.

Note that the relative transform is always specified as the full, absolute transform. 
It is never updated via an incremental change to the previous value.

### 16.3.11 move\_to\_set - Puts a geometry into a set

DCM\_logical move\_to\_set( g\_node\* gn, g\_node\* setgn );

The application passes pointers to two geometry nodes. 
The second of these must be a set (i.e. 
the type returned by the Frustum function DCM\_g\_identify is DCM\_SET). The first of these must be a geometry that is not a set or an offset curve, or a copy curve based on an offset curve. 
The DCM will make the geometry a member of the set.

If an invalid request is made, such as to add a set to a set or to add a geometry to a geometry, the function will return DCM\_FALSE. 
Otherwise it will return DCM\_TRUE.

If the geometry is already a member of a set, it is removed from its original set and added to the specified set. 
If setgn is a DCM\_NULL pointer the geometry is just removed from its present set.

### 16.3.12 parameter\_node - Return a p\_node

p\_node\* parameter\_node( void\* ag, g\_node\* gn, d\_node\* dn);

The function returns a p\_node associated with the given geometry node (gn) and dimension node (dn). The geometry, which must be a parametric or an ellipse, must be constrained by the dimension, and a help point or parameter must have been provided. 
The pointer ag can be used to associate the p\_node with an application object. 
The p\_node can be used to control the location at which a constraint is applied on a parametric or ellipse, either by fixing the value using the DCM function fix or by adding the p\_node to a non-linear equation.

p\_node\* parameter\_node( void\* ag, d\_node\* dn, DCM\_constraint\_end end);

This function is used to return a p\_node for one end of a single geometry constraint – a constraint that is applied between two locations on a single parametric geometry. 
The value of end determines which of the two help parameters of the constraint is used to create the p\_node, it will be one of:

- DCM\_CONSTRAINT\_END\_ONE
- DCM\_CONSTRAINT\_END\_TWO

### 16.3.13 erase - Erases a node in the DCM system

void erase( g\_node\* gn );

void erase( d\_node\* dn );

void erase( r\_node\* rn );

void erase( v\_node\* vn );

void erase( e\_node\* en );

void erase( p\_node\* pn );

Takes a pointer to a node in the DCM and erases this node. 
The application will probably wish to erase its equivalent data structures at this point. 
To prevent the internal structures of the DCM from becoming corrupt, erasing a geometry node will also erase any associated dimension or radius nodes and any associated p\_nodes. 
To assist the application, the DCM will call the frustum function DCM\_erased\_node for each node that is erased within the DCM. 
An example implementation of this function would be to build a list of application objects that need to be erased after the original call to dimension\_system::erase() returns.

When a set is erased any geometries that had been added to the set will be removed from the set before it is deleted.

Erasing a dimension node will erase any associated p\_node. 
It will also erase an associated variable node and this variable will also be removed from any equation to which it had been added. 
The application will need to update its own data structures to take account of this. 
The DCM\_erased\_node frustum function can be used to keep track of these changes.

If the variable is associated with a dimension is erased, the dimension will revert back to being one with a value. 
The variable will also be removed from any equation to which it had been added using add\_v\_to\_e.

If an equation is erased, any variables that occur in this equation will not be erased.

Erasing a point which is a control point of a spline also erases the spline.

Erasing an ellipse, an evaluated parametric curve, a spline or an offset curve will also erase any associated offset curves and copy curves (see section [11.1.4 Erasing an offset curve](11._Offset_and_copy_curves.md)

### 16.3.14 erase\_all – Erases all nodes in a DCM system

void erase\_all();

Erases all DCM nodes in a DCM instance in one go, without erasing the instance.

erase\_all is a convenient way to empty the DCM, while persisting the DCM instance. 
This allows, for example, to keep the non-default values set for the global DCM options, the Frustum functions registration and the journaling options.

Previously, the only option for the application to empty the DCM without deleting the whole instance was to call the interface function erase on each DCM node.

erase\_all might provide performance improvements with respect to calling erase on each node.

Just like the function erase, erase\_all calls the Frustum function DCM\_erased\_node to notify the application of each node that is being erased in DCM, if this function is registered.

erase\_all can be used before deleting the DCM instance, to avoid any Frustum functions being called by the destructor. 
Applications which have the potential to throw exceptions from DCM\_erased\_node would be advised to use this function so that the exceptions are not thrown by a call to the destructor.

The order in which DCM erases nodes within erase\_all might change.

### 16.3.15 update\_extensions – Add, update or erase geometry extensions

unsigned intupdate\_extensions( g\_node\* gn );

Takes a pointer to a g\_node, which must be either a spline, an evaluated parametric, an offset curve or an ellipse. 
Calling this function instructs the DCM to enquire for information about curve extensions on the geometry via the Frustum. 
The application can use these calls to add extensions if none have previously been specified, to remove any extensions that already exist or to update the definitions of existing extensions.

The function will returns an integer that can be used to determine whether the extensions have been updated successfully and if not, to extract detailed information about the reason for failure. 
Typically a failure will be the result of incompatible data being supplied via the Frustum. 
If the update is successful the return value is zero. 
The integer returned is the sum of the following error codes:

- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_UPDATE\_ERROR = 1 – An error occurred during updating. 
Check other codes for a detailed explanation.
- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_UPDATE\_MIN\_END\_ERROR = 2
- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_UPDATE\_MIN\_END\_PARAMETERS\_ERROR = 4
- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_UPDATE\_MIN\_END\_INCOMPATIBLE\_START\_TYPE = 8
- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_UPDATE\_MAX\_END\_ERROR = 16
- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_UPDATE\_MAX\_END\_PARAMETERS\_ERROR = 32
- DCM\_PARA\_EXT\_UPDATE\_MAX\_END\_INCOMPATIBLE\_START\_TYPE = 64

The detailed codes identify:

- MIN or MAX \- which extension on the curve has failed.
- PARAMETERS – Invalid parameters given – e.g. 
start parameter not within original parameter range.
- START\_TYPE – Extension that is not at a curve end specified for a spline or evaluated parametric.

See section [17.6.1 DCM\_parametric\_extension\_data – Define an extension to a curve](17.6._Frustum_functions_for_evaluated_parametrics_and_splines.md)
For more general guidance on configuring curve extensions, see section [7.5 Curve extensions](7.5._Curve_extensions.md)

