## 16.4 DCM functions for managing equations

The functions in this section are for managing equations.

### 16.4.1 add\_v - Creates a variable in the DCM

v\_node\* add\_v( void\* av );

v\_node\* add\_v( void\* av, d\_node\* dn );

v\_node\* add\_v( void\* av, r\_node\* rn );

The application passes a pointer that will be used by the Frustum when referring to this variable. 
If the variable is not associated with any dimension, the DCM creates a simple variable and its initial value is found when needed via the Frustum function DCM\_variable\_start\_value. 
If the variable is associated with a dimension, the application must also pass a pointer to a DCM dimension or internal freedom node (dn or rn) and the DCM will use the measured value of the dimension for its initial value. 
A pointer to the variable node is returned.

If a variable dimension is not added to any equation (see add\_e in the next section) it is treated as a reference dimension. 
The value of a reference dimension is the measured distance between the geometries. 
It is possible to enquire this value following an evaluation with the value function.

If the dimension has already been made into a variable by a previous call to add\_v, a second call with the same dimension node will return the same pointer as was previously returned. 
This means that in this case an application need not store the value of the pointer returned by add\_v because its value can be found by calling this function when it is required.

### 16.4.2 add\_e - Creates an equation in the DCM

e\_node\* add\_e( void\* ae );  // linear, non-linear and inequalities

e\_node\* add\_e( double c );  // linear equations only

e\_node\* add\_e( void\* ae, double c ); // linear equations only

The application passes either a pointer, a double that will be used as the constant term in the equation, or both. 
The DCM returns a pointer to an equation node. 
If a pointer is passed by the application, the DCM will use this to refer to the equation through the Frustum.

If the first form of add\_e is used, the DCM will enquire through the Frustum function DCM\_equation\_type to determine if the equation is a linear equation, a rigid linear equation, a non-linear equation or an inequality.

If the second or third form of add\_e is used to pass the constant term, the current DCM will not call DCM\_equation\_type and will assume that the equation is of type DCM\_LINEAR\_EQUATION. 
It is also assumed that the value of the constant term will not change. 
Therefore, the DCM will never call the Frustum function DCM\_equation\_constant\_value to enquire the value of the constant term.

New applications are encouraged to register the DCM\_equation\_type function in a way that return the expected equation type in any case for these variants of the function (i.e. 
DCM\_RIGID\_LINEAR\_EQUATION) as it is expected that future versions of 2D DCM may support additional expression types that use those same add\_e function variants.

If the application knows that the constant and coefficient terms of a linear equation will not change, it is preferable to create a rigid linear equation, as the DCM will solve over-constrained but consistent (OCC) constraint schemes without over-defining the model (see [2.7.2 Over-constrained but consistent models](2.7._Solving_over-defined_models.md)

Note that if a constant value is passed to the DCM, it will be assumed that the equation is a linear equation and hence non-linear equations and inequalities must use the first form of the function.

### 16.4.3 add\_v\_to\_e - Add a variable to an equation

DCM\_logical add\_v\_to\_e( void\* ac, e\_node\* en, v\_node\* vn );

DCM\_logical add\_v\_to\_e( double cf, e\_node\* en, v\_node\* vn );

The application passes the DCM the pointer to the equation (as returned by add\_e) and the pointer to the variable (as returned by add\_v). The application also passes either a pointer that will be used by the Frustum to enquire the value of the coefficient of the variable in this equation (ac), or the value of the coefficient (cf).

For a non-linear equation or inequality, only the first form of this function can be used. 
In these cases, the value of (ac) will be ignored.

If the numerical value of the coefficient is passed, the DCM will assume that it will never be changed and will not call the function DCM\_equation\_coefficient\_value.

If the variable has already been added to the given equation it will be removed. 
The function will return DCM\_TRUE if the variable is added to the equation and DCM\_FALSE if it is removed.

The function will also return DCM\_FALSE when it rejects a variable from an equation. 
That will occur if the linear equation has variable dimensions that are incompatible with the new variable dimension. 
DCM only allows all variable dimensions with units of length, or all variable dimensions with units of angle. 
Simple variables can freely be mixed with either of the dimension types, however.

Generally it is preferable to create a rigid linear equation if it is known that the constant and coefficient terms of a linear equation will not be changed. 
In this case, either variant of add\_v\_to\_e may be used to specify the value of each coefficient.

Note the pointer ac can be DCM\_NULL. 
This is because the Frustum will pass all three of the pointers when referring to a particular variable in a particular equation (see Frustum function DCM\_equation\_coefficient\_value).

### 16.4.4 add\_g\_to\_e - Add a geometry to a non-linear equation

DCM\_logical add\_g\_to\_e( void\* ac, e\_node\* en, g\_node\* gn );

        // non-linear equations only

This function is used to inform the DCM that the geometry gn is in the non-linear equation en. 
The pointer ac is currently not used. 
The function can also be used to remove geometry from an equation in which case it returns DCM\_FALSE otherwise it will return returns DCM\_TRUE.

### 16.4.5 add\_p\_to\_e - Add a help parameter to a non-linear equation

DCM\_logical add\_p\_to\_e( void\* ac, e\_node\* en, p\_node\* pn );

        // non-linear equations only

This function is used to inform the DCM that the help parameter p\_node pn is in the non-linear equation en. 
The function can also be used to remove a p\_node from an equation in which case it returns DCM\_FALSE otherwise it will return returns DCM\_TRUE. 
The pointer ac will be passed back to the application in the function DCM\_equation\_p\_node\_derivative\_value, when this is called for a p\_node.

