## 16.7 Conic functions

The functions in this section are used for conic curves.

### 16.7.1 DCM\_conic\_data - conic data structure

This structure is used to pass data between the application and the DCM when adding, enquiring and updating conics.

typedef struct DCM\_conic\_data {

unsigned int   data\_mask;

unsigned int   bad\_data\_mask;

DCM\_conic\_type  type;

DCM\_conic\_shape  shape;

DCM\_conic\_rigidity  rigidity;

double    bezier\_rho;

int   cp\_n;

DCM\_g\_node\_array  cp\_g\_nodes;

double\*   cp\_vectors;

double   axis\_direction\[2\];

double   eccentricity;

double   near\_vertex\[2\];

double   near\_focus\[2\];

} DCM\_conic\_data;

The meaning of the fields is as follows:

- data\_mask \- A bit-mask to indicate which other fields in the structure are used. 
When the structure is used to create or update a conic this argument is used to show which other fields have been filled in by the application. 
When the structure is used for enquiry this field is used to tell the DCM which other fields it should fill in.



The bit-mask is a sum of the values in the following enumerated type:



typedef enum DCM\_conic\_data\_mask {

DCM\_CONIC\_TYPE= 0x00000001,

DCM\_CONIC\_SHAPE= 0x00000002,

DCM\_CONIC\_RIGIDITY= 0x00000004,

DCM\_CONIC\_BEZIER\_RHO= 0x00000008,

DCM\_CONIC\_CP\_N= 0x00000010,

DCM\_CONIC\_CP\_G\_NODES= 0x00000020,

DCM\_CONIC\_CP\_VECTORS= 0x00000040,

DCM\_CONIC\_AXIS\_DIRECTION= 0x00000080,

DCM\_CONIC\_ECCENTRICITY= 0x00000100,

DCM\_CONIC\_NEAR\_VERTEX= 0x00000200,

DCM\_CONIC\_NEAR\_FOCUS= 0x00000400

} DCM\_conic\_data\_mask;

- bad\_data\_mask \- This bit-mask is set by the DCM to give an indication of the reason for failure when it DCM returns DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_BAD\_DATA. 
The bits in the mask correspond to those in DCM\_conic\_data\_mask and show which data caused the failure.
- The type of the conic, which may be one of three types:

- DCM\_CONIC\_TYPE\_BEZIER – The conic will have the freedoms of its three control points and ρ, which will be bounded in the range 0 < ρ < 1.
- DCM\_CONIC\_TYPE\_FIXED\_RHO\_BEZIER – The DCM will not change the value of ρ during a compute.
- DCM\_CONIC\_TYPE\_FIXED\_SHAPE\_BEZIER – The conic will take the shape given by the shape parameter.

- The shape of the conic. 
If type is DCM\_CONIC\_TYPE\_FIXED\_SHAPE\_BEZIER this is mandatory, otherwise it is not required. 
The supported values are:

- DCM\_CONIC\_SHAPE\_PARABOLA will be equivalent to a fixed ρ value of 0.5.
- DCM\_CONIC\_SHAPE\_ELLIPSE will allow ρ to solve in the range 0 < ρ < 0.5.
- DCM\_CONIC\_SHAPE\_HYPERBOLA will allow ρ to solve in the range 0.5 < ρ < 1.

- bezier\_rho, the ρ value of the conic, generally limited to 0 < ρ < 1. This range will be further restricted if the shape is also set, specifying the type of conic allowed.
- The rigidity of the conic, which may be one of DCM\_CONIC\_RIGIDITY\_RIGID, DCM\_CONIC\_RIGIDITY\_SCALABLE, or DCM\_CONIC\_RIGIDITY\_FLEXIBLE. 
This will determine determine how many degrees of freedom the conic has.
- The number of control points which are positions in space (vectors) or existing points (g\_nodes) in the DCM. 
Currently, any number other than 3 will result in the conic being invalid, and DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_BAD\_DATA being returned.

#### 16.7.1.1 Conic status return values

The following status values are used with DCM conic functions:

- DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_OK – The general "success" return code.
- DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_NOT\_A\_CONIC – A conic specific function has been called with a non-conic g\_node.
- DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_WRONG\_CONIC\_TYPE – Indicates an attempt to update the shape on non-fixed-shape conic (i.e. 
type is DCM\_CONIC\_TYPE\_BEZIERDCM\_CONIC\_TYPE\_FIXED\_RHO\_BEZIER) or or an attempt to set rho on a fixed-shape parabola.
- DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_BAD\_DATA – Usually arising from a NULL g\_node, array, or data struct.
- DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_INCOMPATIBLE\_DATA – Indicates an attempt to specify both g\_nodes and vectors.
- DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_MISSING\_DATA – Indicates an attempt to create or update a conic with an incomplete set of attributes.
- DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_NOT\_SOLVED – Used to indicate a degenerate conic. 
This means a curve has been successfully added but has control point positions such that the definition of the underling conic section cannot be computed (e.g. 
near focus).

Where possible, if the status return is any value except for DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_OK the DCM will set the bad\_data\_mask field to indicate which fields contained the data that caused the error.

### 16.7.2 add\_conic\_g – Add a conic geometry

g\_node\* DCM\_add\_conic\_g(void\* ag, DCM\_conic\_data\* conic\_data, DCM\_conic\_status\* status);

Takes a pointer ag to an application geometry and the DCM\_conic\_data structure (which must be filled in by the application). Provided that data is consistent it will create a conic curve in the DCM and return its g\_node, and status will be set to DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_OK. 
If there are any errors the value of the g\_node will be NULL.

The DCM will copy the conic data, hence the application does not need to maintain this struct after the call.

When defining the conic, the application defines in conic\_data the input properties of the geometry. 
The data\_mask should include some or all of the following bit mask values:

- DCM\_CONIC\_TYPE – Sets the type. 
Required.
- DCM\_CONIC\_SHAPE – The shape is set. 
Required for type "fixed shape" only.
- DCM\_CONIC\_RIGIDITY – The rigidity is set. 
Required.
- DCM\_CONIC\_BEZIER\_RHO – The bezier\_rho value is set. 
Required, except for fixed shape parabola.
- DCM\_CONIC\_CP\_N – The cp\_n property is set. 
Optional (must be 3 if set).
- DCM\_CONIC\_CP\_G\_NODES – The cp\_g\_nodes array is populated. 
Either this or cp\_vectors must be given and not both.
- DCM\_CONIC\_CP\_VECTORS– The cp\_vectors array is populated. 
Either this or cp\_g\_nodes must be given and not both.

If specified, the cp\_g\_nodes array must consist of 3 DCM g\_node pointers of type DCM\_POINT. 
If cp\_vectors is set, it is an array of 6 doubles representing the positions of the 3 control points \[x1, y1, x2, y2, x3, y3 \].

### 16.7.3 update\_conic – Modify the definition of a conic

DCM\_conic\_status update\_conic(g\_node\* cgn, DCM\_conic\_data\* conic\_data);

Takes a pointer cgn to an existing conic curve and a DCM\_conic\_data structure. 
The application can use this to change the data that defines the curve. 
Any constraints and dimensions to the curve will be preserved.

With add\_conic\_g, DCM copies the data specified so the conic\_data struct is only required at the time of the call. 
When updating the conic, it is only necessary to set those fields in the conic\_data struct that are being modified. 
This means that update\_conic may be used to modify the conic properties to any values that are consistent. 
For example:

- Specify new values for already defined conic\_data fields, or,
- Add new fields that were previously undefined.
- Replace a previously defined data field with an alternative one, for example to change the way a conic is defined from using the cp\_vectors array to the cp\_g\_nodes array.

The input conic\_data does not need to be a complete conic definition; only the fields being changed need to be defined, so long as the mask is set correctly to indicate to DCM that only those fields are to be read. 
If the data is not valid the function will return DCM\_CONIC\_STATUS\_BAD\_DATA or similar (see [16.7.1.1 Conic status return values](#_Ref296520085)), the bad\_data\_mask will be set appropriately, and the conic will not be modified.

When update\_conic is not being called from within a DCM Frustum function, the conic\_data may be set to NULL if the data is not changed but some of the defining control points have moved. 
This method might be used to cause the DCM to regenerate the conic shape due to a change in control point locations, without solving the constraints. 
If conic\_data is provided, then the application can set the same values as for the add\_conic\_g function.

If the conic is modified (outside of a Frustum callback), the DCM partition containing the conic is reset (see sections [16.8.5 reset - Prevent an incremental evaluation](16.8._Model_evaluation.md)
See section [2.5.3 Incremental evaluation](2.5._Evaluating_the_model.md)
The only exception to this is that a change to solely the bezier\_rho property does not cause a reset.

This function can also be called recursively when the Frustum function DCM\_conic\_update is called. 
In this case the DCM will specify which data can be changed and the DCM data will not be reset and an incremental evaluation is possible. 
Currently only the rho value may be changed within an evaluation, so the DCM will only set the DCM\_CONIC\_BEZIER\_RHO bit and the only value that will be read in the subsequent update is the bezier\_rho element.

Note that the DCM will not check if the defining control points have been moved after update\_conic is called from within a Frustum function – this behaviour is not supported.

### 16.7.4 enquire\_conic - Enquire the properties of a conic

DCM\_conic\_status enquire\_conic(g\_node\* cgn, DCM\_conic\_data\* conic\_data);

Takes a pointer cgn to an existing conic curve and conic\_data, a DCM\_conic\_data struct to receive the details of the conic. 
The application fills in the data\_mask argument in the struct to show which fields should be filled in by the DCM.

The application may enquire any of the conic properties that are used to define the conic, as listed in add\_conic\_g. 
In addition, the following mask values are used only for enquiry:

- DCM\_CONIC\_AXIS\_DIRECTION – Output the axis\_direction vector.
- DCM\_CONIC\_ECCENTRICITY \- Output the eccentricity value.
- DCM\_CONIC\_NEAR\_VERTEX – Output the near\_vertex vector.
- DCM\_CONIC\_NEAR\_FOCUS – Output the near\_focus vector.

### 16.7.5 transform\_conic - Rigidly transform a conic

DCM\_conic\_status transform\_conic(gnode\* cgn, double mat \[3\]\[3\]);

Takes a pointer cgn to an existing conic and a transformation matrix mat. 
The conic will be moved rigidly.

Note that this function will not attempt to satisfy any constraints to the conic or the control points. 
Using this function is equivalent to transforming the points or data used to define the conic without evaluating the model.

### 16.7.6 conic\_evaluator - Enquire the position and derivatives of a conic

DCM\_conic\_status conic\_evaluator(g\_node\* cgn, double t, int n\_der, double\* c\_array);

Takes a pointer cgn to an existing conic curve, t, which is a parameter value on the curve, and n\_der which is the number of derivatives required. 
The function returns an array of points and derivatives in c\_array.

If n\_der is zero, only the position will be returned and so the application must allocate an array of length 2. Generally, the array length must be 2\*(1+n\_der).

