## 16.8 Model evaluation

The following functions are used to compute the model.

### 16.8.1 evaluate - Evaluates the geometry

DCM\_evaluation\_type evaluate( int ng = 0, g\_node\*\* gn = DCM\_NULL,

DCM\_solving\_mode mode = DCM\_STANDARD\_SOLVE );

Instructs the DCM to recalculate geometry and variables, and set the status codes of all entities. 
The function can optionally be given an array of DCM geometry nodes together with an integer corresponding to the length of the array. 
The uses of these are described below. 
Also, an optional argument can be given to affect the solving mode that is used. 
This can have four values:

- DCM\_STANDARD\_SOLVE \- solve using standard method (the default). The array of geometries will be used as an array of soft reference geometry, and the first geometry in the array is the least likely to move. 
See section [2.5.6.7 Soft reference geometry](2.5._Evaluating_the_model.md)
- DCM\_WEIGHTED\_STANDARD\_SOLVE – This solving mode operates like standard solving. 
The array of geometries is used to define geometry the application wishes to remain in place. 
This functions like the soft reference array for standard solving, except that it will have more influence on the solution found. 
This means that it is less likely to move the geometry but will also be less likely to find a valid solution. 
This solving mode is not recommended for use with the evaluate function.
- DCM\_MINIMUM\_MOVE\_SOLVE \- This solving mode will tend to minimise the number of transforms output. 
The array of geometries will be used to specify the preferred order in which geometries should move. 
The first geometry in the array is the one most likely to move.

Note that this is different to the behaviour with soft references, where the first geometry in the array is the one least likely to move. 
If an application decides to uses this solving mode it is recommended that no geometries are passed to the evaluate function.
- DCM\_LOCALISED\_SOLVE \- This solving mode will aim to localise the changes in the system around the unsatisfied constraints and the dimensions with changeable values. 
See section [2.5.6.3 Localised solving mode](2.5._Evaluating_the_model.md)
When using this mode, applications should consider making most dimensions rigid using the Frustum function DCM\_dimension\_rigid (see [17.2.22 DCM\_dimension\_rigid - Return whether a distance is rigid](17.2._Basic_dimension_functions.md)

Note that any array of geometries will be considered as soft references. 
Potentially these will cause all geometries to move and so they are not recommended in this mode.
- DCM\_RELAXATION\_SOLVE \- use relaxation solving for under-constrained geometries. 
The array of geometries will be used for soft references.

This function will return one of the following values:

- DCM\_FULL\_EVAL\- Full evaluation performed for the whole model.
- DCM\_EVAL\_ABORTED \- Evaluation aborted by the application

Further details of the different solving modes can be found in [2\. Fundamental DCM Concepts](2._Fundamental_DCM_Concepts.md)

### 16.8.2 re\_evaluate - Incrementally evaluates the geometry

DCM\_evaluation\_type re\_evaluate( int ng = 0, g\_node\*\* gn = DCM\_NULL,

DCM\_logical calc\_status = DCM\_FALSE,

DCM\_solving\_mode mode = DCM\_STANDARD\_SOLVE);

This function instructs the DCM to recalculate the geometry. 
Like evaluate, it can optionally be given an array of DCM geometry nodes together with an integer corresponding to the length of the array. 
It can also be given optional arguments to control if full status information is required, and which solving mode is used. 
These are described below.

Incremental evaluation using re\_evaluate will be faster than a full evaluation using evaluate. 
This is because it is only necessary to do the second part of the DCM evaluation algorithm (the DCM does not need to re-analyse the dimensioning scheme). Incremental evaluation is possible provided that dimensions have not been added or erased since the last full evaluation. 
If changes have been made (for instance by calls to add\_d or erase) then a full evaluation will be done when re\_evaluate is used. 
If any of the arguments to re\_evaluate change, this will also result in a full evaluation.

It is possible to force a full evaluation to be done for the whole model by calling the function reset before using re\_evaluate.

This function will return one of the following values:

- DCM\_FULL\_EVAL\- Full evaluation performed for the whole model.
- DCM\_PARTIALLY\_INCREMENTAL\_EVAL \- Some of model was evaluated incrementally.
- DCM\_FULLY\_INCREMENTAL\_EVAL \- All of the model was evaluated incrementally.
- DCM\_EVAL\_ABORTED \- Evaluation aborted by the application.

Typically, incremental evaluation is used when changing dimensions values, or after the function change\_chirality is used to change to a different solution. 
Note that this is the only way to change the chirality of the solution when using re\_evaluate. 
Moving the geometry before an incremental evaluation will not affect the chirality of the solution. 
If changing a dimension value using a series of incremental solves with re\_evaluate, the dimension should not be rigid (this is the default). Similarly, for expressions, in order to change the expression on each step it must not be rigid.

Fixed geometry should not be moved by the application before an incremental evaluation, and the DCM will not detect if this has been done. 
Moving fixed geometry may violate deductions made in the course of the prior full evaluation. 
The function move\_and\_evaluate is the recommended way of moving geometry and preserving chirality.

By default, re\_evaluate will set status codes as is done by evaluate except that it will mark all under-defined and well-defined geometries as under-defined. 
Also it will not set the detailed under-defined status codes on the geometries. 
The optional argument calc\_status can be passed as DCM\_TRUE to re\_evaluate and this will cause it to set the status codes on well-defined geometry too. 
If this is done the time taken for an incremental evaluation will approximately double, but the extra time taken for a full evaluation will only increase by about 10%.

It is possible to pass a further optional argument to re\_evaluate that specifies the solving mode to use. 
See evaluate for a list of what is allowed. 
If re\_evaluate is called after a call to evaluate the same solving mode should be used, otherwise re\_evaluate will do a full evaluation.

Note that if an incremental evaluation has been performed by re\_evaluate, a call to undo\_evaluation can reset the geometry to either the position it was in before the incremental evaluation or to the position it in was before the most recent full evaluation was performed.

It is possible to enquire how the whole model or a single node was evaluated by calling the DCM function last\_evaluation\_type described in section [16.5.17 last\_evaluation\_type - Return DCM evaluation type information](16.5._Enquiry_functions.md)

### 16.8.3 move\_and\_evaluate - Evaluate preserving chirality

DCM\_m\_and\_e\_outcome move\_and\_evaluate( int ng, g\_node\*\* gn,

double (\*\*mat)\[3\],

double\* rad = DCM\_NULL, double\* rad2 = DCM\_NULL,

DCM\_solving\_mode = DCM\_WEIGHTED\_STANDARD\_SOLVE );

This function allows geometry to be transformed and then evaluated, but will find a solution with the same chirality as the original geometry positions.

The function takes an array of DCM geometry nodes together with an integer corresponding to the length of the array. 
Transformations are given as an array of transformation matrices. 
See section [15.13 DCM transforms](15.13._DCM_transforms.md)
If any of the geometries are circles or ellipses, the application can also give an array of doubles of length ng, which will include the new radii for circles, and the new value of the major radius for ellipses. 
A further array can be used to give the new value of the minor radius of ellipses.

When this function is called the DCM will first record the original chirality, modify the geometry according to the transformations and radii supplied by the application and then solve with the same chirality. 
Constraints between fixed geometries and geometries in the same set will only be implied after they have been moved.

Parametric geometry (DCM\_PARAMETRIC and splines curves) can also be passed to this function. 
If the parametric curve will not change its shape but will only move rigidly, the appropriate transform should be given. 
However, if the application wants to change the shape of a parametric curve, a modified procedure is necessary.

In order to inform the DCM that the shape of a parametric curve will be modified, the following scheme is followed:

- At the beginning of the call to move\_and\_evaluate, the application evaluators for any DCM\_PARAMETRIC curves should be set up to return the starting position and shape of the curve.
- For a spline curve, if any new interpolation or control points specified as g\_nodes are required, the application will need to add the g\_nodes to the DCM before calling move\_and\_evaluate.
- When calling move\_and\_evaluate:

- The application should put the DCM geometry pointer into the array of geometries, gn, as usual.
- The array of transformation matrices, mat, should have a DCM\_NULL value at the location corresponding to the parametric curve or curves. 
See for example the code given in section [15.13 DCM transforms](15.13._DCM_transforms.md)

- During move\_and\_evaluate, DCM will initially enquire and use the starting version of these curves to establish the initial chirality.
- At some point, DCM will then make a call to the Frustum to request that the application change the parametric curve to the desired final shape and position. 
The particular call depends on the curve type:

- For DCM\_PARAMETRIC curves, the Frustum function DCM\_parametric\_regenerate is called, even for curves that have no dependent geometry. 
Whenever this function is called the application should set its evaluators for the curve to the desired finishing shape. 
As usual with this function, the application should enquire the current position on any dependent geometry using the transform function. 
During the solving process, DCM may additionally make calls to DCM\_parametric\_undo\_regenerate to indicate that the application should set the evaluator to return the original starting shape of the curve temporarily.
- For spline curves the Frustum function DCM\_spline\_update will be called. 
The application should then make a call to either replace\_spline or update\_spline to supply the new spline data to the spline in question. 
The function update\_spline can be used if minor changes are desired since it requires less information to be passed to DCM whilst replace\_spline allows more fundamental property changes including the addition of new control or interpolation points.See the Frustum function definitions for more details of the changes permitted by the two functions.

- Once new curve definitions have been supplied, DCM will go on to complete the evaluation using the new curve shapes and positions. 
Even if the solve cannot be completed successfully (e.g. 
because it results in a not-consistent model) the parametric curve locations will be the after positions as specified during the function.
- No transforms will be output on the parametric geometry.

The function will return one of the following:

- DCM\_M\_AND\_E\_SOLVED\_EXACTLY

All the geometry could be solved and the moved geometry has been positioned as required.
- DCM\_M\_AND\_E\_SOLVED

All the geometry could be solved but some of the listed geometry has been moved from the required position. 
For example, if only well-defined free geometry is passed to the function then the solution will have to move the geometry back to the initial positions to find the only solution.
- DCM\_M\_AND\_E\_FAILED

The DCM was unable to find a solution for the model with the geometry in its transformed position. 
This will normally be caused by the application attempting to move the geometry "too far". The result will be that some geometries have the NOT\_CHANGED or one of the NOT\_CONSISTENT status codes. 
Note that, any fixed geometries passed to move\_and\_evaluate will still have been transformed as requested and hence the chirality of the model may have been changed. 
The application should call undo\_evaluation to restore the original state of the geometry in this case.

Note that if the definition of a parametric or spline has been changed by the application during this call the undo\_evaluation function will not reverse this change, so it will be necessary for the application to do this by changing the evaluator for a DCM\_PARAMETRIC curve, or by calling replace\_spline / update\_spline for a spline curve.
- DCM\_M\_AND\_E\_ABORTED

The application has returned TRUE when the DCM has called the Frustum function [DCM\_abort\_dcm](17.12._Miscellaneous_functions.md)

The move\_and\_evaluate function can use any of the solving modes. 
The weighted standard solving mode is the default. 
This mode is more likely to move free geometry to the new positions and return DCM\_M\_AND\_E\_SOLVED\_EXACTLY.

### 16.8.4 changed - Notifies DCM which nodes have changed

void changed( d\_node\* dn, DCM\_changed\_longevity longevity );

void changed( r\_node\* rn, DCM\_changed\_longevity longevity );

void changed( e\_node\* en, DCM\_changed\_longevity longevity );

void changed( g\_node\* gn, DCM\_changed\_longevity longevity );

void changed( p\_node\* pn, DCM\_changed\_longevity longevity );

These functions are used in certain circumstances to inform the DCM when dimension values, equations or geometry nodes have been changed by the application. 
This then allows the DCM to take account of this for subsequent operations to improve the efficiency of calls to re\_evaluate..

The function is called with the node being changed and an argument that indicates how it is changed. 
This argument can have two values:

- CHANGED\_UNTIL\_RE\_EVALUATE \- This is used if different nodes are being changed for each call to re\_evaluate.
- CHANGED\_UNTIL\_EVALUATE \- This is used if the same nodes will be changed repeatedly. 
When this value is used it is only necessary to call changed once with each node at the start of a sequence of calls to re\_evaluate.

Note that the performance will only be improved by using the changed functions when the re\_evaluate function is called at least twice.

If the application chooses to use this function it is important that it is called for all nodes which change. 
In other words, if this function is called for any nodes, the DCM will assume that the other nodes are not changed.

The function has no effect if called to notify a change which cannot be performed during an incremental evaluation (see [2.5.3.3 Incremental evaluation after changing the model outside DCM](2.5._Evaluating_the_model.md)

The application can call changed on a d\_node (or r\_node) during a drag sequence. 
If changed is called on a d\_node with the value CHANGE\_UNTIL\_RE\_EVALUATE, the information will only be used for the next drag step and then cleared. 
If CHANGE\_UNTIL\_EVALUATE is called, it will only be cleared after the next full evaluation. 
The first evaluation of a drag sequence is a full evaluation, and hence all changed statuses will be cleared after the first drag step. 
In particular, if an application wishes the "changed" information to be applied during an entire drag sequence, it must call changedafter the first drag step.

This function provides a significant optimisation during incremental solving by avoiding the second and subsequent solve for the majority of a model, where only a limited subset of that model is being varied on each change. 
However, use of this function with re\_evaluate and dynamic\_evaluate does not prevent an initial solve of the entire model, which may lead to a slow initial drag step.

To further optimise solving for localised changed, DCM provides partition specific solving functions (re\_evaluate\_partitions and dynamic\_evaluate\_partitions) which will process only the part of the model necessary to solve the specified nodes.

### 16.8.5 reset - Prevent an incremental evaluation

void reset( DCM\_logical cancel\_chirality = DCM\_FALSE );

Instructs the DCM that it should not perform an incremental evaluation when re\_evaluate is next called. 
This function can be called by the application whenever it needs to do a full evaluation, for instance if geometry has been moved in order to change the chirality of the solution.

The function can also be given an optional logical argument. 
If this is DCM\_TRUE, all pending requests to change the chirality (resulting from calls to change\_chirality) will also be removed.

### 16.8.6 reset - Prevent an incremental evaluation in a particular partition

void reset(g\_node\* gn);

void reset(d\_node\* dn);

void reset(r\_node\* rn);

void reset(e\_node\* en);

void reset(v\_node\* vn);

void reset(p\_node\* pn);

These functions instruct the DCM that it should not perform an incremental evaluation in the partition containing the specified node.

This function can be called by the application whenever it needs the DCM to do a full evaluation of part of the model (e.g. 
if geometry has been moved in order to change the chirality of the solution) but to solve other partitions incrementally.

### 16.8.7 change\_chirality - Change the chirality

DCM\_chirality\_status change\_chirality( d\_node\* dn, g\_node\* gn1 = DCM\_NULL ,

      g\_node\* gn2 = DCM\_NULL);

The function is called in order to change the chirality of the solution. 
The call will take effect upon the next call to an evaluation function i.e. 
evaluate, re\_evaluate, dynamic\_evaluate, move\_and\_evaluate, evaluate\_partitions, etc. 
It is possible to call this function multiple times with different arguments before evaluating all changes together.

A DCM dimension node is passed, and optionally, one or two DCM geometry nodes. 
The effects of calling this function are:

- Called with a dimension node: The dimension node must be a distance or a directed distance dimension with a numeric value. 
The DCM will invert the given dimension.
- Called with a dimension node and a geometry node: The geometry node must be a circle and the dimension node must be a distance dimension, directed distance dimension, coincident constraint or tangent constraint to that circle. 
For a coincident constraint the other geometry must be a point. 
The DCM will modify the dimension help point by moving it to the opposite side of the circle.
- Called with a dimension node and two geometry nodes. 
The dimension node must be of type DCM\_EQUAL\_DISTANCE and the two geometry nodes must be one of the pairs of geometry nodes used when the equal-distance constraint was added. 
Note that the chirality of equal distance constraints can be best controlled not by using change\_chirality, but by setting half spaces on the constrained distances via the frustum function [DCM\_equal\_distance\_half\_space](17.2._Basic_dimension_functions.md)

Note that the model will not be changed if the dimension has a status of D\_OVER\_DEFINED, D\_NON\_ALGEBRAIC or D\_NOT\_CHANGED.

The function returns a value that indicates if a change to the relative location of geometries will result from the given modification. 
If the DCM is not in an "evaluated" state (i.e. 
it has been altered in some way since the last call to an evaluation function), it is not possible to predict if a change will take place. 
If it is in an evaluated state, an attempt will be made to predict if the chirality change will have any effect on the result. 
The values returned are:

- DCM\_CHIRALITY\_UNKNOWN \- Cannot determine if the chirality change requested will cause any change, i.e., the model is not in an evaluated state.
- DCM\_CHIRALITY\_NO\_CHANGE \- No change will occur as a result of the request. 
This will be returned if there is only a single solution possible, e.g. 
a dimension between two points.
- DCM\_CHIRALITY\_CHANGE \- A change will occur (but see below). This will be returned in cases where there are two possible solutions, e.g., a point with a distance dimension to a line.

Note that even in cases where the DCM indicates that a change may occur, there may be no real solution with the given dimension values. 
There are also cases where the DCM will predict a change, but because of the symmetry of the solution the geometry will end up in the same location. 
An example of this would be a point with a zero-value distance dimension to a line.

If an equal-distance constraint is being changed, it is possible that the DCM will return DCM\_CHIRALITY\_NO\_CHANGE when a suitable solution can be found. 
This will happen if the particular pair geometry nodes specified in the call to change\_chirality are used to define the value of the equal-distance. 
All geometry-pairs that are constrained by equal-distances can be changed if a non-variable distance exists between one of the pairs of geometry nodes.

The function reset can be used to cancel all pending requests to change the chirality.

### 16.8.8 undo\_evaluation - Restore model to a previous state

void undo\_evaluation( DCM\_undo\_mode um );

Transforms the geometry to a previous state. 
The state restored to is defined by the argument (um).

- DCM\_UNDO\_TO\_INITIAL \- Restore to position before last full evaluation.
- DCM\_UNDO\_TO\_PREVIOUS \- Restore to position before last incremental evaluation.

The undo is accomplished by making calls to the DCM\_transform function with the inverse of the previous transform.

Geometry created since the last evaluation is not affected. 
The status codes of all nodes will also be reset to the value they held in the previous state.

Note that if the model has been solved using one the partition-specific solving functions, then the stored previous positions for the geometry will be set according to the state of each individual partition.

### 16.8.9 is\_evaluated – Query the current state

DCM\_evaluated\_outcome is\_evaluated();

This function can be used to enquire the current state of 2D DCM. 
If the model is in an evaluated state, the function will return DCM\_EVALUATED\_FULLY. 
If the model has been changed since the last evaluation, the function will return DCM\_EVALUATED\_NONE.

If partition-specific solving is being used, then the new function will take this into account. 
If some partitions of the model are in a evaluated state, while others are not, the return value will be DCM\_EVALUATED\_PARTIALLY.

