## 16.9 Dragging geometry

The following function is used for dragging geometry.

### 16.9.1 dynamic\_evaluate - Drag under-defined geometry

DCM\_evaluation\_type dynamic\_evaluate( int n\_geom, g\_node\*\* gn,

double (\*\*mat)\[3\], double\* rad,

DCM\_dragging\_transformation\* dragt,

DCM\_dragging\_result\* res,

DCM\_dragging\_option opt = DCM\_DRAG\_POSSIBLE,

DCM\_solving\_mode mode = DCM\_MINIMUM\_MOVE\_SOLVE );

This function allows geometry nodes to be transformed and will then recalculate the model geometry to take account of the transformed geometry. 
It is used to implement dragging in an application.

- n\_geom, gn \- The function takes an array of DCM geometry nodes to be transformed (gn) together with an integer corresponding to the length of the array (n\_geom).



It is possible to drag a set by including it in the array of geometries.
- mat \- Transformations are given as an array of n\_geom transformation matrices. 
Each transformation matrix will be applied to the corresponding geometry in gn. 
The transformations are used to pre-multiply the geometry vectors. 
The types of transformations permissible and how the matrix can be declared are described in section [15.13 DCM transforms](15.13._DCM_transforms.md)
The original position of the geometry is the position before the first in a sequence of calls to this function.



Note that it is possible to specify an identity transformation in order to prevent the DCM from moving a node.
- rad \- This is an array of length n\_geom. 
Each value represents a value to be applied to the dragged geometry. 
Note that this argument may be set to DCM\_NULL if no values are required. 
This value is only used for the following cases:

- The corresponding geometry (in gn) is a circle or an ellipse and the corresponding drag type (in dragt) implies a change in radii. 
In this case, the value rad corresponds to the new radius for the geometry.



Although zero radius circles are supported, an ellipse radius will not be applied if it less than the currently defined linear resolution. 
Negative radii will always be ignored.
- The corresponding geometry (in gn) is an offset curve and type (in dragt) specifies a change in offset distance. 
The value rad is then the new offset distance value.
- The corresponding geometry (in gn) is a scalable set and type (in dragt) specifies a change in scale. 
The value rad is then the factor by which the set should be scaled, where a value of 1 indicates no change. 
A uni- or bi-scalable set cannot currently be scaled using this method.

- dragt \- This array is also of length n\_geom. 
Each entry in this array specifies the way that the corresponding geometry will be changed by this and subsequent calls to this function. 
The possible values are:

DCM\_DT\_GENERAL   \- translation and/or rotation

DCM\_DT\_TRANSLATION  \- translation only

DCM\_DT\_RADIUS   \- circle radius only

DCM\_DT\_MAJOR\_RADIUS \- ellipse major radius only

DCM\_DT\_MINOR\_RADIUS\- ellipse minor radius only

DCM\_DT\_OFFSET\_DISTANCE  \- offset distance only

DCM\_DT\_SCALE\_FACTOR   \- scalable set scaling only

For circles and points, DCM\_DT\_GENERAL and DCM\_DT\_TRANSLATION have the same effect.

For the first two codes, the application is expected to give a transformation matrix for the geometry in the corresponding location in mat. 
For the other types the application is expected to give the new radius value, scaling factor, or offset distance for the geometry in the corresponding location in rad. 
The DCM will only look for the expected information, so if an application indicates that it is going to change the radius of a circle the DCM will not apply a transformation.
- res \- Success or failure is indicated by the value of this argument; the possible values are:

- DCM\_DRAG\_SUCCEEDED \- The operation has succeeded.
- DCM\_DRAG\_FAILED \- The drag has failed. 
In this case the DCM may still have made some changes to the geometries. 
The application must call the function undo\_evaluation to revert the model to the previous position before the next call to this function or the results will be unpredictable. 
Hence, the user is always presented with either the current position if this is acceptable, or the last acceptable position.

- opt \- It is not always possible to apply all of the given transformation to the specified geometries. 
This optional argument is used to control what will happen in these cases. 
It can take one of two values:

- DCM\_DRAG\_POSSIBLE \- This is the default behaviour. 
Apply as much of the given transformations as possible. 
When this argument is used, a call to this function will be considered to have succeeded even if some (or all) of the geometries could not be moved. 
It will be considered to have failed only if the DCM discovers that one or more of the geometries being dragged is over-defined or not-consistent. 
The order of geometries in the array specifies a preferred order in which the geometries should move, with the first geometry in the array most likely to be moved.
- DCM\_DRAG\_SPECIFIC \- The call is only considered to have succeeded if every given transformation can be applied in full to the specified geometries. 
If any of the geometries have limited degrees of freedom then only certain transformations can be used.

- mode \- This optional argument specifies which type of solving should be used. 
The default mode is DCM\_MINIMUM\_MOVE\_SOLVE. 
Customers implementing new integrations should consider using the model DCM\_LOCALISED\_SOLVE. 
For more on possible solving modes and how to use them, see section [2.5.6 Solution control for under-constrained geometry](2.5._Evaluating_the_model.md)

It is possible for a geometry to appear in the array gn more than once. 
In this way the application can, for example, move a circle and change its radius at the same time. 
The order that nodes are specified is significant because the DCM will attempt to satisfy the requested transformation on a node earlier in the array in preference to a node later in the array.

This function will set statuses on geometries in the same way as described for evaluate, except that both under-defined and well-defined geometries will have the status code G\_UNDER\_DEFINED.

In a similar way to re\_evaluate, this function is able to perform an incremental evaluation and avoid repeating the first stage of the algorithm when it is called again with the same geometries. 
In this case, the first call to this function will take longer than subsequent calls. 
The function returns a value to indicate the type of evaluation performed.

- DCM\_FULL\_EVAL \- Full evaluation performed for the whole model.
- DCM\_PARTIALLY\_INCREMENTAL\_EVAL \- Some of model was evaluated incrementally.
- DCM\_FULLY\_INCREMENTAL\_EVAL \- All of the model was evaluated incrementally.
- DCM\_EVAL\_ABORTED \- Aborted by the application.

A consequence of this is that if consecutive calls to this function are not part of a sequence, the function reset must be called. 
This will re-initialise the DCM data structures. 
It is recommended that reset is always called before the first of a series of calls to this function. 
Note that it is only possible to change the transformations and radii during a sequence of calls. 
If any other arguments are changed then this will automatically re-initialise the DCM.

In a sequence of calls to this function each solution will be found relative to the previous solution. 
This can be an advantage on certain types of model where it is possible to reach the desired solution in several steps that could not be found in a single step. 
Thus, on these types of models the solution found will be affected by the step size.

A possible algorithm for dragging is as follows:

Select geometries to drag

Allocate transforms

Call reset

While (dragging)

Set transform (relative to original position)

Call dynamic\_evaluate (ignore transforms output through the Frustum)

If the drag has succeeded

For every geometry

Inquire the last transform by calling transform

If the transform is NOT identity

Update geometry in the application

Else

Call undo\_evaluation(UNDO\_TO\_PREVIOUS)

