# 16\. The DCM Interface

This chapter describes the interface to the DCM. 
The DCM interface is called by the application to access the facilities of the DCM. 
The functions allow the application to define a model and then to interact with it.

The essential part of the DCM interface consists of just a few functions. 
Once the system has been initialised geometry nodes can be created with add\_g. 
Dimension nodes can then be defined with add\_d and add\_r. 
Nodes can be deleted using erase and queried using status. 
The geometry is recalculated using evaluate. 
Evaluation can be reversed by undo\_evaluation. 
At any time the total remaining degrees of freedom can be found from constraint\_balance. 
Geometry is fixed or unfixed with fix.

It is anticipated that all applications of the DCM will make use of the functions listed above. 
In addition there are other functions that give access to the more sophisticated features of the DCM. 
For instance, there are functions that allow the performance of evaluations to be improved in certain circumstances. 
Functions are also provided to facilitate the testing and debugging of applications that use the DCM.

An application is free to use the interfaces in whatever way it chooses. 
However, for ease of reference the functions are described in separate sections below.

In the following description an application geometry is a reference to a geometry definition held in the application. 
An application dimension is a reference to a dimension definition held in the application. 
The DCM will access these definitions only through the Frustum functions. 
When geometry and dimensions have been declared to the DCM there will be corresponding pointers to DCM geometry nodes and DCM dimension nodes that represent the structure of the dimensioning scheme.

Chapter [15\. Integrating the DCM into an Application](15._Integrating_the_DCM_into_an_Application.md)

