## 9.2 Dependent and non-dependent evaluated parametric curves

In many cases, an evaluated parametric curve may be defined from other geometries or variables in the model. 
For example, a curve may be constructed by the application so that it passes through a series of points. 
(Note that a spline curve would normally be used in this case.)

As was said above, it may not be necessary for the curve to be added to the DCM if the application does not need to support dimensions and constraints onto the parametric.

If the application chooses to add the spline curve to the DCM it can also choose if it will inform the DCM that it depends upon the points. 
Telling the DCM that a parametric curve depends on other geometry will make it a dependent evaluated parametric curve.

The advantages of doing this are as follows:

- A wider range of dimensioning schemes will be solved by the DCM.
- The application is able to update the shape of the curve whilst the DCM is solving the model.
- Through the use of dependence constraints tovariables, the application may add more complex parametric types such as conic sections.

The disadvantage of using dependent evaluated parametric curves is that the interaction between the DCM and the application is complex and will require extra implementation.

If the shape of the evaluated parametric curve does not depend on other DCM geometries then it is not necessary to add DCM\_DEPENDENCE constraints. 
The DCM will still be able to translate and rotate the curve rigidly in order to solve other constraints.

Full details of dependent evaluated parametric curves are given in section [9.4 Dependent evaluated parametric curves](9.4._Dependent_evaluated_parametric_curves.md)

