## 9.4 Dependent evaluated parametric curves

Dependence constraints are used to inform the DCM that an evaluated parametric curve depends upon other DCM geometry and possibly DCM variables. 
Typically, an evaluated parametric curve will be recomputed by the application from several geometries so several dependence constraints will be applied.

If dependence constraints are present in the model, the DCM will request that the application should update the evaluated parametric curve when the model is solved. 
See section [9.4.3 Solving models with dependence constraints](#_Ref437669797) for further details.

When working with dependent evaluated parametric curves the DCM will assume that the dependence is such that the shape of the parametric curve depends only on the relative position of its defining geometry and the value of any defining variables. 
Hence, if all of the defining geometries are transformed by the same amount, the DCM will assume that the effect will be that the dependent parametric is transformed too. 
This means that the application should inform the DCM of all of the dependencies that exist.

### 9.4.1 Constraints onto dependent parametric curves

Constraints and dimensions can be added between a dependent parametric curve and other geometry in the model. 
If the other geometry is not a defining geometry of the parametric then they will be interpreted as described in section [9.1.1 Discontinuity definitions](9.1._Overview_of_evaluated_parametric_curves.md)

above.

It is also possible to place constraints between a dependent parametric curve and its defining geometry. 
The DCM will still expect the application to regenerate the parametric from its defining geometry. 
However, the DCM will use these constraints as an indication of the nature of the dependency. 
If possible, the application should use fixed p\_nodes in combination with constraints between the dependent curve and its defining geometry as this will further simply the solving procedure for the DCM.

A typical dependent parametric curve would be defined by the positions of a number of DCM points, which also lie on the curve (The application might model this curve as an interpolating spline). To add this curve to the DCM as a parametric, the application will inform the DCM that the curve depends upon the points using a number of dependence constraints, and will regenerate the curve whenever these points move.

For optimum performance, the application should also add coincident constraints between the points and the curves; the DCM will expect the application to satisfy this constraint whenever the application updates the parametric curve. 
The application will also need to give the correct help parameter for the tangent constraint. 
If the curve will have constant parameter limits, then it should create fixed parameter nodes for the coincidence constraints to the end points.

In some cases the DCM will be able to make use of this information in order to successfully solve a model. 
In general, this will allow more flexibility in the way that dimensions are placed onto parametric curves. 
Without this information, the DCM would not be able to infer relationships necessary to handle some over-constrained but consistent cases, for example.

### 9.4.2 Constraints between dependent parametric curves

Symmetric, coincident and pattern constraints can also be applied between two parametric curves. 
These constraints will not be used to change the shape or position of the parametric curve. 
Instead the DCM will assume that the application will ensure that the constraints are always satisfied when it regenerates the shape of the curve.

Constraints of these types can also be placed between two dependent parametric curves. 
In this case, both parametric curves should depend on their defining geometries in the same way. 
Also, the application should place the same constraints (i.e., symmetric, coincident or pattern) between the corresponding geometries that the parametric depends on.

For example, if an application places a coincident constraint between two dependent parametric curves, it should also place coincident constraints between the corresponding defining geometries of the curves.

### 9.4.3 Solving models with dependence constraints

As was mentioned above, the DCM will use a modified solving procedure for a model that includes dependence constraints. 
The following sequence is used for each parametric geometry:

- The DCM will compute the position of all of the geometries which define the parametric curve (i.e., those with dependence constraints to the parametric).
- The DCM will call the application to request that it should update the shape and position of the parametric curve, using the new positions for the defining geometries.
- The DCM will continue to solve the model, using the updated parametric curve. 
Any other geometries that are constrained to the parametric curve will be computed in this stage.
- This sequence of operations may occur several times for each parametric curve.

If the DCM is unable to determine a solution procedure that allows it to follow this sequence, it will mark the parametric curve, its defining geometries and the dependence constraints as over-defined. 
This will always occur if the position of the defining geometry depends upon the position of the parametric curve, either directly or indirectly.

### 9.4.4 Simple dependence constraints

Solving dependent geometry may require the application to reposition the parametric curve several times during an evaluation. 
For some parametrics, particularly if there is a lot of dependent geometry this can be slow. 
Simple dependence constraints can be used as an alternative to full dependence constraints. 
If a parametric has been defined using simple dependence constraints, then the DCM will only solve the model if it can find a solution using a single repositioning of dependent geometry. 
This allows an application to support simple constraint schemes to parametric geometry whilst ensuring any evaluation is relatively fast.

### 9.4.5 Implementing dependent evaluated parametric geometry

In a model with dependent parametric geometry the DCM and the application will both need to access the geometry and/or variables that define the parametric curve. 
During the process of solving the model, the DCM will call the Frustum function DCM\_parametric\_regenerate when it requires the application to update the definition of the curve.

Some or all of the geometries and variables that define the parametric may have been changed internally by the DCM, but these changes will not yet have been output through the Frustum. 
The application can find the changes to the geometry by calling the DCM function transform and the current value of any variables by calling the DCM function value. 
As the application will not know which geometries or variables have changed it will need to call the relevant function for every defining geometry or variable of the curve. 
It should not call them for any other geometry. 
The transforms returned are relative to the original position of the geometries.

Once it knows how the geometries or variables have changed, the application can then update the shape and position of the parametric curve as appropriate and return from the call to DCM\_parametric\_regenerate. 
Note, it is essential the transforms returned from the DCM are applied regardless of size of the transform. 
Thereafter, the shape and position of the parametric curve should not be changed until this function is called again, or the DCM completes the solving process.

A complication is that the application must return the same geometry position whenever the Frustum is called until the DCM calls the Frustum function DCM\_transform. 
One way that an application can achieve this is to make copies of all defining geometries. 
The parametric will be computed from these copies and the original geometries are only modified with the DCM calls the DCM\_transform function. 
The copied geometries are updated when the Frustum function DCM\_parametric\_regenerate is called, as follows:

When creating a parametric:

Make a copy of the defining geometries and variables

Use these copies whenever the shape of the parametric is computed

When the Frustum function DCM\_parametric\_regenerate is called:

For ALL defining geometries

      Restore copied geometries to their original positions

Call theDCM function transform to get its 'new' position

      Apply the transform to the copy

For ALL defining variables

      Call the DCM function value to get its ‘new’ value

      Update parametric using the position of the copied geometries and the variables

When the Frustum function DCM\_transform is called:

Update the geometry

If the geometry being transformed has been copied to define a parametric

      Update the copy

Update the parametric after all copied geometries and variables have been updated

Note that the function DCM\_parametric\_regenerate may be called several times during the course of a single evaluation, even if the net result is that none of the geometries in the model are changed. 
It is important that the application follows the above procedure on each occasion.

As well as changing the shape and position of the curve the application can also change the parameter limits of the curve, and the values of any help parameters of any dimensions to the curve.

The DCM will never output a transform on a regenerated parametric. 
All changes to a regenerated curve are made by outputting transforms to the defining geometry and asking the application to regenerate it. 
If the application enquires the transform for a regenerated parametric the identity transform will be returned.

